16




历年四六级预测试卷四级作文题汇总
Model Test One 
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic"Should Students Go Abroad for Study at an Early Age?" . You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 出国留学是许多家长为孩子的前程所作的选择，不少家长在孩子读中学甚至小学时就送他们出国了，由此出现了许多 "小留学生"。
　　2. 我认为应该/不应该送少年儿童出国留学，主要原因在于…
　　作文范文
　　Should Students Go Abroad for Study at an Early Age?
　　Every year, tens of thousands of students in their teens go abroad for study and for a bright future. The number of such students is ever growing and has raised a lot of concern. People are divided over the issue whether students should go abroad for study at an early age.
　　In my opinion, if possible, young students should go abroad for study at their early age. Firstly, it is commonly accepted that the younger you are, the quicker and better you will learn a foreign language. Most of the students staying abroad will have good opportunities to master the foreign language. Secondly, as we know, the competition in our national entrance examination for college is so fierce that a lot of students fail to get a chance to study further. The students who receive an advanced education abroad are more likely to fulfill their potential. Thirdly, on contrary to the popular notion, the life of young students is full of hardship instead of idleness. They learn to live on their own and value what they have while they, spoiled by their parents and grandparents, used to indulge themselves a lot at home.
　　In conclusion, it is clear that students should go abroad for study at an early age. On the one hand, the students will benefit a lot with improved linguistic, academic and mental abilities. On the other hand, the society will reap the benefit too when those talents return to the homeland.
　　
Model Test Two
　　试卷二Part ⅤWriting (30 minutes)
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic Heated Match, Fair Play. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　假设你是学校广播站文体组的负责人，对今天上午举行的学校篮球联赛决赛进行报道。报道的内容应包括以下几点：
　　1比赛举行的时间及地点，参赛队伍。
　　2比赛的主要过程。
　　3对比赛结果的分析。
　　参考作文
　　Heated Match, Fair Play
　　Dear fellow students,
　　Good evening. Here comes the coverage of the final basketball match of our school league. 
　　The match was held in the school stadium in the morning. One team was from the English Department, and the other from the Maths Department.
　　The game began at 8：30. All the players brought their potential into full play. Both teams took the lead by turns. The biggest margin was less than ten points. It was really the closest game I have ever watched. When there was 5 seconds left, the team from the English Department lagged narrowly behind by two points. At the last second, Li Qiang scored a three points and put the English team in lead by one point. The audience burst into thunderous applause and cheers. At last, the English team screwed a 76-75 win over the Maths team.
　　All the players from both teams played marvelously, with the leading scorer Li Qiang. He scored 26 points, 10 of them in the decisive final quarter. Besides, he also snatched 9 rebounds. No wonder he was elected the MVP of the game. 
　　Thats the exciting report on the game. Thank you.
　　Reference Writing
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic Psychology in Our Life. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 试着谈谈心理健康的重要性。
　　2. 结合自身情况，谈谈如何保持心理健康。
　　Psychology plays an important role in our daily life. …／　How to Stay Healthy/ How to Manage Anger(Depression, Stress, Fear, Anxiety, etc.)/ Emotion and Health
　　参考作文范文
　　Psychology in Our Life
　　Psychology plays an important role in our daily life. If you own it, youll have confidence to conquer many difficulties. On the contrary, you may feel sad, frustrated throughout your life. So keep a healthy psychology is necessary.
　　There are at least three methods to hold a healthy psychology. First, try to control yourself when you are in a mess; for example, you are in depression or under stress. Second, believe in yourself after you think twice of the situation, when you have to decide by yourself and have enough courage to take on any results of your own decision, meaning you need selfconfidence. Third, you should cultivate the ability of selfdiscipline, which makes you more sensible when you are really at the edge of the outbreak.
　　As far as I am concerned, be kind to everyone around you and keep calm when you feel anger is an important way to own a healthy psychology.
　　
Model Test Three
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic"How to Deal with Cheating？". You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1当今的校园里出现了各种各样的作弊手段。
　　2作弊的原因。
　　3怎样杜绝作弊。
　　作文范文
　　How to Deal with Cheating?
　　A large number of students tend to cheat in the exams. Some will copy the answers from their books. Some will talk with each other to share the right answers. Besides, some even write down the information on their palms of hands or on the arms.
　　There are several causes leading to their cheating. Firstly, some students just play time away and want to get high scores without paying efforts. Secondly, some are under great pressure and they fear to fail the exams. Finally, some are afraid that they will fall behind others in the exams. Once the students are found or caught cheating, the teachers should punish them severely and explain the harm of cheating to them.There are at least two ways to eliminate cheating. In one way, we should explain the harm of cheating to the students. In another way,strict measures should be taken against cheating. As a result, the fair play in the exams can be achieved and students can pay attention to study instead of cheating.
　　Reference Writing
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic My First Step in College. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　请描述你刚进入高校那一天/一段时间的所见、所闻、所感。
　　参考作文范文
　　My First Step in College
　　On the very first day in college, I was surprised to find the campus was so large. Believe it or not, I even lost my way to the dormitory when I returned from the dining hall.
　　During the first week, I missed my family so much that I telephoned them every day. In my dreams, I often found myself having a good time with my friends back in my hometown. To tell the truth, I couldnt help crying every time I woke up.
　　By and by, I managed to shake off the feeling of being homesick and made a lot of friends. There were only 20 students in my class. New to each other at first, but we became good friends very soon. In fact, we seemed to be living in a big family. 
　　In college, we had more free time than in the middle school. In the evenings, we were not required to study in the classroom. Instead, we could go everywhere and do whatever we want. I borrowed a number of books from the library and most of them were novels, which I had no chance to read in the middle school. Besides reading books in my spare time, I played table tennis for fun and made enormous progress.
　　I will never forget those special days when I took my first step in college.
　　
Model Test Four
　　Part ⅤWriting(30 minutes)
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic"How to Keep Fit？". You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 阐述健康的重要性。
　　2. 提出保持健康的方法。
　　作文范文
　　How to Keep Fit？
　　Health is far more important than wealth and wisdom. Good health enables us to enjoy our life and achieve what we hope for in our career. On the contrary, poor health tends to deprive us of our interest in everything around us. How to stay healthy concerns everyone, though we have advanced medicine. When we discuss this, some fundamental principles should be brought in mind.
　　Firstly, it is very important for us to take more fruits and vegetables because they provide vitamins and they help in the process of digestion. Secondly, we have to keep a balanced diet and maintain regular eating habits. Proper nutrition is important for good health. Avoid food with lots of sugar and fat. Eat plenty of foods high in protein. Thirdly, wed better do morning exercise every day, do sports frequently to make our bodies strong. Besides, we have to avoid too much work pressure. Getting too tired all the time may definitely weaken our immune system, making us get sick easily. Finally, we have to get rid of those bad habits that damage our health, such as drinking and smoking. 
　　In conclusion, if we stick to things according to the aspects mentioned above, well lead a healthy life and become as fit as a fiddle. 
　　Reference Writing
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic Attend Your Classes Regularly. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 大学校园里，迟到，早退，旷课是常见的现象。
　　2. 保证学生出勤水平对大学教育的重要性。
　　3. 作为学生应该怎样做。
　　参考作文范文
　　Attend Your Classes Regularly
　　Nowadays it is a very common phenomenon for some university students to be late for or even be absent from their classes. And still there are some students who slip out of the classroom before the class is over. Class attendance has become a thorny problem to both the students and the teachers.
　　In fact, it is very important for the students to attend their classes regularly. First,it will ensure you to catch up with the teachers in your learning. That is very helpful to you if you want to do a good job in your study. Second, attending classes regularly is a way of showing respect to your teachers, too. Your teachers will feel bad if the students do not attend their classes, which, in return, will affect their teaching and be no good for both the students. Third, attending classes regularly will help to form a good habit of punctuality, which is of great importance for the students to do a good job in the future.
　　Therefore, we university students should form the good habit of attending our classes regularly from now on. And some day we will benefit from it.
　　Real policemen, both in Britain and the United States, hardly recognize any similarities between their lives and what they see on TV - if they ever get home in time.
　　The first difference is that a policemens real life revolves around law. Most of his training is in criminal law. He has to know exactly what actions are crimes and what evidence can be used to prove them in court. He has to know nearly as much law as a professional lawyer.
　　Little of his time is spent in dramatic confrontations with desperate criminals. He will spend most of his working life typing millions of words on thousands of forms about hundreds of sad, unimportant people who are guilty.
　　Most television crime drama is about finding the criminal: as soon as hes arrested, the story is over. In real life, finding criminals is seldom much of a problem. Except in very serious cases like murders and terrorist attacks little effort is spent on searching. The police have an elaborate machinery which eventually show up most wanted men.
　　Having made an arrest, a detective really starts to work. He has to prove his case in court and to do that he often has to gather a lot of different evidence. Much of this has to be given by people who dont want to get involved in a court case.

Model Test Five 
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a letter on the topic A Letter to the University President about the Library Service on the Campus. You should write at least 120 words, and base your composition on the outline given below in Chinese:
　　假设你是李强，请你就本校图书馆的状况给校长写一封信，反映如下问题： 
　　1. 图书馆内本专业藏书偏旧，不利于学生及时了解国内外新的学术发展。
　　2. 阅览室灯光太暗、没有空调设备。
　　3. 新开发的电子借阅系统有待完善 - 许多图书资料都无法使用该系统查到。
　　A Letter to the University President about the Library Service on the Campus
　　August 12th, 2004
　　Dear Mr. President,
　　Yours sincerely
　　作文范文
　　A Letter to the University President about the Library Service on the Campus
　　Dear Mr. President,
　　I am writing to express my concern over the library service on the campus.As a major in English, I find that most of the books in English in the library are outdated. So far, I have not come across a single book published after 1995. As a result, we fail to get the latest information of academic development both at home and abroad.
　　In addition, the light in the reading room is far from bright, which does harm to our eyes. Worse still, there is no airconditioning and we are sweating heavily while reading.
　　Last but not least, the newlydeveloped electronic information system does not work well and needs further improvement. A great number of books should have been listed in the system. 
　　There is no denying that the library has helped us a lot. But it is in urgent need of improvement. When improved, the library is certain to provide much more help with our study.
　　Thank you for your time. I am looking forward to your reply.
　　Yours sincerely,
　　Li Qiang
　　Li Qiang
　　
Model Test Six
　　Part ⅤWriting(30 minutes)
　　Directions:For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic The Harms of Internet Games. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 现在网络游戏在校园很流行。
　　2. 网络游戏的危害。
　　3. 怎样正确对待网络游戏。
　　作文范文
　　The Harms of Internet Games
　　Nowadays Internet games have become very popular on campus. I am impressed most that my roommates often spend their evenings playing such games. Besides, more and more girls are engaged in them.
　　As is well known, Internet games can do much harm to us if we spend too much time on such things. Firstly, it is an enormous waste of time and we will have little time for our study. Secondly, those who play Internet games day and night will be harmed physically for lack of rest and sleep. Thirdly, many of these games are about violence and are not good for our spiritual development. The last but not the least, it will cost us much money.
　　In my opinion, we should deal with Internet games seriously. On the one hand, we can get some pleasure from these games if we dont indulge ourselves in them. On the other hand, we shouldnt spend too much time, energy and money on such thing games because study takes the priority. In conclusion, we should try to avoid the harms of Internet games and live a more meaningful life.
　　Reference Writing
　　Directions:For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic 
　　Long-distance Education. You should write at least 120 words, and base your composition on the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 在中国，远程教育发展迅速。
　　2. 远程教育加强了发达地区与贫困地区、国内院校与国外院校之间的联系。
　　3. 然而，中国的远程教育还很不发达。
　　参考作文范文
　　Long-distance Education
　　With the popularization of computer and information technology, longdistance education, though a new comer, has developed at a rather surprising speed in China and proved to be an effective way of learning.
　　Thanks to distance learning, many people in the poor areas could enjoy equal opportunities as their counterparts in the richer areas. What is more, students in China are able to have access to those of the students abroad.
　　In spite of its enormous achievements, compared to that in rich countries longdistance learning in China is still far from perfect and thus should be improved in the following two aspects. First, the needed facilities like computers, information network for distance learning are still lacking in some areas and should be installed. Second, more knowledge and courses should be available through distance education so as to meet variety of learners needs.
　　
Model Test Seven
　　Directions:For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic The Advantages and Disadvantages of Dormitory Life. You should write at least 120 words, and base your composition on the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 在大学里，有些学生希望自己独处一室，有些学生喜欢同舍友共同生活。 
　　2. 列出二种观点的优缺点，比较并做出选择，写出自己的理由。 
　　3. 得出结论。
　　作文范文
　　The Advantages and Disadvantages of Dormitory Life
　　For a college student, the advantages of having roommates always outweigh the disadvantages. Those who object to having roommates claim that several people living together gives rise to some unpleasantness because every person has his own way. They also argue that, while living together, there is usually a lack of privacy. Although at first glance these arguments sound reasonable and appealing, they are not borne out by a careful consideration. When you and your roommates are at odds, it is the best time for you to learn how to adjust the relationships between yourself and the others. Solving trivial problems in the dorm will, in the long run, enrich your social experience and help you to understand other peoples feelings and learn to be considerate. The incomparable advantage is that it offers an excellent chance of cooperation and adequate colorful group activities. Planning a party singlehandedly may be a dull and difficult job; your roommates help, however, renders it enjoyable and easy. You can make a plan together; you may even start a musical band. All of these are invaluable throughout your life. 
　　So as I see it, rooming together, as a precious opportunity for students living in dormitory, is the best way of learning cooperation and of understanding other people and the society in general. 
　　Reference Writing
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic Today's Luxuries Are Tomorrow's Necessities. You should write at least 120 words, and base your composition on the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 首先，对奢侈品和必需品做出解释。
　　2. 然后，举例说明某些过去的奢侈品在今天已经成为必需品。
　　3. 最后，对这种转变给出合理解释，如科技进步，工业发展等。
　　参考作文范文
　　Today's Luxuries Are Tomorrow's Necessities
　　By "luxury", we mean "a pleasant and often expensive thing that is not necessary". From a historical point of view, most things which were luxuries when they first came into being became necessities later. When the electric bulb was first invented in the U.S., it was such a luxury that only government bodies could afford to use it. Nowadays, however, it has reached every part of the world. It is the same case with telephone, TV, and a lot of others, which were all luxuries years ago.
　　Anything, no matter how luxurious it is, will become a necessity when it is widely used. This is true of many of the present luxuries, including mobile phones, cars, computers and many other things. It is known to all that the purpose of the development of science is to make things easy for the mankind, not for only a small number of people. Therefore, the first thing to do after a new invention occurs is to spread it so as to benefit as many people as possible. In the course of the spread, the luxury becomes decreasingly luxurious until in the end it becomes a necessity. This is an objective law.
　　With the quick development of science and technology, the process for many things to become a necessity from a luxury will be greatly shortened. Anything that can be imagined will be invented and in no time becomes a necessity accessible to ordinary people.
　　
Model Test Eight
　　Part ⅤWriting(30 minutes)
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic The Declination of Technical Secondary Schools. You should write at least 120 words according to the outline given below in Chinese:
　　上图是1999-2001年我国中等专业学校(technical secondary school)发展图表，观察图表数据，描述其变化，并根据你的分析理解，给出相应解释。
　　1. 上图所示为 1999-2001中等专业学校发展情况，请描述其变化。
　　2. 请说明发生这些变化的原因(可联系国家教育体制改革，人才市场需求等)。
　　3.预测今后的变化趋势并简述理由。
　　作文范文
　　The Declination of Technical Secondary Schools
　　According to the above statistics, the number of students attending technical secondary schools is on the decrease. As a result, more and more technical secondary schools have closed down, which has raised a lot of public concern.
　　There are several reasons that contribute to the declination of these schools. Firstly, with the reform of national educational system, colleges and high-schools are enrolling an increasing number of students, resulting in the intensified competition against technical secondary schools. Secondly, the requirements for workers are becoming higher and higher, while many of these schools have failed to meet the increased demands and lost their attraction to young people. Thirdly, a lot of people attach little attention to these schools and play down their importance.
　　However, as far as I am concerned, this declination will come to an end in the near future and technical secondary education will thrive once again. After all, our society is in great need of workforce with considerable technical skills for economical development. At the same time, through years of struggle for existence, these schools will learn to adapt themselves to the changed situation, orient their education towards the demands of the market and provide necessary instructions for their graduates. Last but not least, our government has attached much more importance to technical secondary education and these schools will enjoy stronger support for their development. 
　　Reference Writing
　　Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic On Mobile Phones. You should write at least 120 words, and base your composition on the outline given below in Chinese:
　　1. 手机的使用已经很普遍。
　　2. 手机的使用带来很多问题。
　　3. 你认为怎样正确使用手机。
　　参考作文范文
　　On Mobile Phones
　　Mobile phones are gaining increasing popularity among people from all walks of life in modern society. They are commonly used by a wide range of people, from students on campus to professional workers who have already made a career by themselves. In fact, mobile phones are so popular that they have gradually become part of our daily lives. 
　　Despite the unusual popularity of mobile phones, we should not fail to notice that the wide use of them can lead to a good many problems at the same time. First of all, the radiation a mobile phone emits will more or less do harm to our body. And more importantly, the signals it gives out may cause great trouble in hospitals or at a airport, a potential threaten to the normal function of some electronic equipment. Besides, using mobile phones will probably put our lives into a state of disorder.
　　Since it is a standing fact that we cannot stop using mobile phones just because of their negative impact, the only way out is to use them in a correct way. To my knowledge, it is workable to reduce the length of time by using them only when it is necessary. In addition, the public should be well informed of the harm done by mobile phones and therefore they can be more selfconscious while using them. 

Model Test One 
　　My View on the New Tuition Policy
　　1.高校收费是一个客观事实，人们对此认识不一
　　2.高校收费带来的一系列影响
　　3.你的观点
　　My View on the New Tuition Policy\;
　　According to China's new tuition policy,the college students have to pay for their education. As to this new policy, there has been a heated debate. Some people think it'll bring too much pressure on students and their families, while others think this policy is sound in the long run.\;
　　The new tuition policy has profound influence on students. Firstly, it will be inevitably burdensome to their families. Some students from poor families can't afford to pay such a large sum. Secondly, the new policy radically alters traditional obligation of the state to finance university tuition fees. Thirdly, it promotes competition among the students, since many students will try to earn a scholarship.
　　In my point of view,we need to adhere to the new policy. This policy renders the students more independence after their graduation and relieves the government of the burden of financing the higher education. At the same time, we should help those students who can not finance their tuition, making sure that they will not drop out because of financial problems.
　　
Model Test Three
　　Part V Writing (30 minutes)
　　For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic Surfing on Internet. Your composition must be based on the outline given below and you should write at least 120 words. Remember to write neatly on the Answer Sheet.
　　1. 因特网在生活中逐渐普及
　　2. 因特网给人们生活带来的影响(好的方面，不好的方面)
　　3. 你的观点
　　Surfing on the Internet
　　Nowadays, Internet is becoming very popular in all walks of life. On the one hand, statistics show that the number of people who apply to have access to Internet doubles every six months. On the other hand, Internet is employed in business, government agencies, and educational sections.\;
　　Internet brings us both advantages and disadvantages. The advantages are as the following. Firstly, we can communicate with our friends more rapidly and quickly. Secondly, Internet brings us fun. For example, many websites open chatrooms where we can talk with different people and make new friends. Finally, many businessmen are taking so-called E-business seriously on the net. 
　　The Internet also has its disadvantages,just as a coin has two sides. In the first place, some people may linger too long on the net while neglecting their work or study. In the second place, some columns on the net may have a negative influence on the youth electronic commerce. 
　　In my opinion, Internet becomes an integral part of our lives, but it is certainly not everything. Living in the 21st century, we need to make good use of the new tool-Internet, but it is just a tool, not life itself. We should not depend on it too much, nor should we ignore it deliberately.
　　
Model Test Four
　　Part V Writing
　　For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic Taking a Part-Time Job. You should write at least 120 words and you should base your compositin on the outline below. 
　　1. 有人认为大学生应作业余兼职。
　　2. 有人认为大学生兼职有很多弊端。
　　3. 你的观点。
　　Taking a Part-Time Job
　　Many college students take part-time jobs in their spare time. Whether it is good or bad is still subject to constant debate.Some people believe that taking a part-time job certainly brings about several advantages. To begin with, students can learn how to get along with people and know the society better by taking a part-time job. Furthermore, to take a part-time job provides the students with a valuable opportunity to put what he has learned from books into practice. Finally, students can make some money, which helps to unload their families' financial burden.
　　However, problems may also arise. Firstly, some students spend too much time doing part-time jobs while neglecting their studies. Secondly, when taking part-time jobs, the students may be distracted from their studies by the colorful lives in the society. Thirdly, some students may be cheated or hurt by their employers, because they don't know how to protect themselves. 
　　As for me, I share the view that college students need to step out of the campus and take some part-time jobs if their schedule permits. After all, it opens them a window to know about the society, which is essential to their maturity.
　　
Model test Five
　　The Hope Project
　　1. 许多孩子因贫困而失学
　　2. 希望工程的意义
　　3. 你的看法
　　The Hope Projec
　　At present, a lot of pupils and students drop out of school. First, in rural are as, many pupils are forced to drop out of school because they cannot afford the fees. Second, in cities, more children cannot go to school because they lack the residency of the municipalility. And third, some college students could not accept their higher education as they cannot afford the tuition. 
　　Thus the "Hope Project" arises across the country.The "Hope Project" has its great significance. It is launched to help those who drop out of school. Firstly, it has helped numerous dropouts go back to school. They will have a bright future when they grow up. Secondly, it embodies the advantage of the socialist system. Thirdly, it has relieved the governments of all level of the burden of financing the education sector. 
　　In my point of view, the "Hope Project" can not solve all of the difficulties in our education. Firstly, it can only provide help to part of the dropouts, and a large number of children still can not enjoy their rights of receiving education. Secondly, it is not very easy for the "Hope Project" itself to raise money. Finally, the institutions like the "Hope Project" are too inedequate in number. Therefor, we should emphasize the importance of education furthermore,and we need to establish a better founded educational system, warrant the realization of the "Hope Project" on a large scale.
　　
Model test six
　　Part V Part V Writing
　　For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic The Importance of Social Practice. You should write at least 120 words and you should base your composition on the outline below. 
　　1. 许多同学认为社会实践并不重要
　　2. 社会实践的好处
　　3. 你的观点
　　
　　The Importance of Social Practice
　　 Some college students don't think that social practice is important. Their views are the following. First, they consider their study as the only most important thing. Second, they regard social practice as wasting of their time. Third, they argue that the social pracitce undertaken by college students are too superficial, thus far from being valuable.
　　 However, there are many advantages of social practice. In the first place, we can apply the knowledge we have obtained from our textbooks to the solution of practical problems. In doing so, we can get more experience. In the second place, participating in social practice can help us have more knowledge about our society and our country. And in the third place, we will take correct attitudes towards our studies through social practice. 
　　 In my view, social practice should become an organic component of school education. The knowledge we obtain from the book in class is very limited. So it is essential for us to participate in social practice in order to learn something that we can't get in class. 
　　
Model test seven
　　The Importance of Self-Confidence
　　1. 自信有何重要性
　　2. 为何有的人没有自信
　　3. 你的观点
　　The Importance of Self-Confidence
　　 Self-confidence is very useful and important to a person.Firstly, self-confidence enables us to have the ambition of being successful. Secondly,once we gain self-confidence, we will possess the courage and strength to overcome the setbacks and difficulties. Thirdly, with self-confidence we may accomplish something which seems to be impossible previously. \;
　　Generally speaking, there are three main reasons for lack of self-confidence when we meet with difficulties. First, we don't have a correct estimate of ourselves. Second, we often overestimate our difficulties. Third, our methods to solve things are not feasible.
　　In my opinion, We should develop confidence and faith in ourselves by taking a right attitude towards our own abilities. As the saying goes, where there is a will, there is a way. If we have a strong faith in ourselves, we will surely have the courage to face any difficulties. In one word, self-confidence is the key to achievements.
　　Model test eight
　　Part V Writing (30 minutes)
　　For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic Is Score Important? You should write at least 120 words and you should base your composition on the outline below.
　　1. 当前分数被看得很重要
　　2. 过分重视分数给学习和教学带来不利影响。
　　3. 你的观点。
　　Is Score Important?
　　 Too much emphasis is placed on test score, which is one of he most obvious features of today's education. On the one hand, it has become the most important criterion for college enrollment. On the other hand, it is also one of the crucial factors either in job assignment or in employment competitions.
　　 To stress the importance of test score brings many bad effects on students' study as well as on teachers' teaching. Firstly, students find themselves concentrating more on strategies to achieve high scores than on developing their overall capabilities. Secondly, teachers tend to give their students high scores as their job is judged mainly by the students' performance in terms of scores. Thirdly, some of the students who can get high scores in school are much less competent in doing jobs.
　　 Personally, I think that the test score can indicate a student's academic performance to some extent. But it can not reflect a student's overall ability. Too much emphasis on test scores actually defeats the academic goals of education.
　　Model test nine
　　Part V Writing (30 minutes)
　　For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a composition on the topic The Advantages and Disadvantages of Private Tutoring your comosition should be based on the outline given below. Your part of the composition should be at least about 120 words. Remember to write clearly. You should write this composition on the composition sheet.

MODEL TEST ONE
　　PartⅤ Writing
　　审题：本文是一篇记叙文。大学生活与考生息息相关。大学生活与高中生活截然不同，是学习生活的新的开始，特别是大学第一年，给人全新的感觉。在新的环境下，学生会有新的体会和收获，并对未来做出自己的规划。
　　写作思路：第一段：大学第一年的生活标志着新的开始，学生更独立，自由的时间更多。
　　第二段：这一年的收获，学到了很多的知识，培养了独立安排学习和生活的能力。
　　第三段：今后三年继续认真学习，同时参加一些学生会活动，全面培养自己的能力。
　　My First Year at College
　　(1)What impressed me most in my first year at college are the (2)sharp differences between college life and middle school life. As a college student, I have to live thousands of miles away from my parents and take care of myself in a completely strange place. (3)Besides, I enjoy much more free time at my disposal and have begun a new chapter in my life.
　　(4-1)During the first year, I have learned to make good use of my spare time. (5-1)Firstly, I often went to the library and did a lot of reading. (6)As a result, I have gained much knowledge which I did not have time to acquire in middle school due to the pressure of numerous exams. (5-2)Secondly, I worked as a private teacher on Saturdays and earned some money to relieve some of the financial burden for my family. (5-3)In addition, I have made quite a lot of friends and we have learned a lot from each other.
　　(4-2)In the following three years, I will continue studying hard and gaining as much knowledge as possible. (7)On the other hand, I will join one of the student organizations and make my own contribution to the community. Of course, I will improve my practical abilities as well in this way.
　　(1)引导全文
　　(2)形容词修饰得当
　　(3)引出第二点不同
　　(4)过渡自然
　　(5)分项说明
　　(6)说明结果
　　(7)说明另一方面的内容
　　
MODEL TEST TWO
　　PartⅤ Writing
　　审题：本文属于建议信。作为建议，需要说明内容以及理由。关于应聘，则要提醒朋友注意哪些要求以及应该做好何种准备。最后，向朋友表示良好祝愿。写信时，要注意段落之间的过渡要自然。
　　写作思路：第一段：建议朋友应聘翻译一职并说明原因。
　　第二段：说明应聘翻译的基本条件。
　　第三段：建议看一些翻译技巧方面的书籍，并扩大词汇量。
　　第四段：祝愿朋友应聘成功。
　　A Letter in Reply to a Friend
　　Dear friend,
　　(1)I'm writing this letter to advise you to apply for the position as English translator in our company. (2)To tell you the truth, we're in urgent need of good translators and I'm sure you have a good chance to get this job. 
　　(3)As for this position, there are some requirements as follows. (4-1)Firstly, a TEM-8 certificate is a must. (4-2)Secondly, you must be able to translate an English article of 2,500 words into Chinese within a day. (4-3)What's more, your translation should be fluent and faithful to the original.
　　Since you will have to take a translation test, it is suggested that you should read some reference books on translation skills. (5)Besides, it is necessary for you to broaden your vocabulary, as you are not allowed to look up new words in the dictionary during the test.
　　I wish you success.
　　Yours sincerely,
　　Huck
　　(1)开篇说明写信目的
　　(2)短语的使用
　　(3)过渡自然
　　(4)分项说明
　　(5)补充说明
　　
MODEL TEST THREE
　　PartⅤ Writing
　　审题：本文是一篇议论文。首先列举出两种对立的观点，然后分别说明各自的理由，最后表达自己的观点。
　　写作思路：第一段：提出两种不同的观点--选择名高校与选择好专业。
　　第二段：说明各自的理由。
　　第三段：支持第二种观点：好的专业更重要，更能增长和发挥自己的能力。
　　Famous University or Better Major?
　　High school graduates have (1)different views about what kind of university they should go to. (2)Some students focus their attention on the universities that are very famous across the country. (3)Others show a preference for those that offer a good major.
　　Students holding the first view usually think that people tend to pay much attention to the reputation of your university. If you are from a famous university, they will think you are an excellent student. (4)However, holders of the second view will argue that one should choose a good major instead of a famous university. A good major will help you develop your ability and skills.
　　(5)As far as I am concerned, I'd like to give my support to the second view. (6)After all, it is your own ability and skills, not the fame of your university, that count most. So we should choose a good major and make efforts to achieve self-development. If we blindly cling to those famous universities, we may fail to develop our full potential and make a great contribution to our society.
　　(1)总括第一段，引出不同的观点
　　(2)说明第一种观点
　　(3)指出第二种观点
　　(4)转折
　　(5)过渡自然，陈述自己的观点
　　(6)短语的使用，强调了能力技巧的重要性
　　MODEL TEST FOUR
　　PartⅤ Writing
　　审题：本文是一篇议论文。文章介绍长假的好处以及可能的问题。最后谈谈自己如何过好长假。
　　写作思路：第一段：长假有利于学生查漏补缺，以及进行实践活动。
　　第二段：有些学生贪玩，浪费宝贵时间。
　　第三段：我要好好学习英语，并做家教。
　　Long Holidays
　　(1)Generally speaking, long holidays are good for us students. (2-1)On the one hand, we have a lot of time to study by ourselves and thus improve weaknesses and further develop strengths. (2-2)On the other hand, we can take part-time jobs and make ourselves better prepared for social life.
　　(3)But every coin has two sides. Some students fail to make good use of their time and they are addicted to various computer games. I am afraid that they are likely to ruin themselves in this way.
　　(4)As far as I am concerned, I will try to make the best use of my precious time. I will spend most of my holidays studying English for I am very poor at it. (5)In addition, I will take a part-time job as private teacher. By this means, I can earn some money and put my knowledge into practice as well.
　　(1)总领全文
　　(2)表述两方面的内容
　　(3)用转折连词进行过渡
　　(4)引出自己的情况
　　(5)补充说明
　　MODEL TEST FIVE
　　Part V Writing
　　审题：图表说明文。分析图表可知，十年间，我国城乡患病率没有什么变化，而就诊率有明显下降。造成这种趋势的原因，一是公费医疗被取消，二是医疗费用太昂贵。社会需要以进一步进行医疗改革，同时居民个人的自我医疗意识也会增强。
　　写作思路：第一段：说明图表表明的变化：患病率变化不明显，就诊率明显下降。
　　第二段：分析变化的原因：公费医疗被取消以及医疗费用太昂贵。
　　第三段：说明变化对个人和社会的影响。
　　Changes in the Hospitalization Rate
　　(1)The above chart shows some changes in the recent three national health care surveys conducted in the past ten years. As we can see, there is no obvious change in terms of morbidity, (2)but the hospitalization rate is clearly on the decline. 
　　(3)There are two main factors contributing to the decline of the hospitalization rate. (4-1)On the one hand, medical services at state expense have been cancelled and people have to pay the medical cost mainly on their own. (4-2)On the other hand, the cost of medical care is so high that many people cannot afford or refuse to go to hospital.
　　Considering the decline of hospitalization rate, it is certain that the government will further carry out the reforms in the health care industry (5)with a view to serving the people better. (6)As for individuals, more and more people are likely to practice self-medication in order to save money and time as well.
　　(1)紧密联系图表
　　(2)转折连词
　　(3)引出原因
　　(4)说明两方面内容
　　(5)短语表示目的
　　(6)引出对个人的影响
　　MODEL TEST SIX
　　PartⅤ Writing
　　审题：本文是一篇议论文。分别说明两种不同的观点，并指出其理由，最后表达自己的观点。
　　写作思路：第一段：提出第一种观点--好学生应该是主动学习型的，并说明其理由。
　　第二段：提出第二种观点--被动学习型也能出现好学生。
　　第三段：表达自己的观点--好学生应该要主动学习。
　　The Making of a Good Student
　　(1)It is commonly accepted that a good student should be an active learner. An active learner has a strong desire to learn new knowledge and prefers to make links with existing knowledge. (2)Thus it is no surprise that he can retain information and knowledge more effectively. 
　　(3)However, others think that a passive learner is likely to be a good student. A passive learner receives information from a teacher in an unquestioning manner. He may work very hard and succeed in memorizing almost all that the teacher has said.
　　(4)As far as I am concerned, to be a good student is to be an active learner. (5-1)On the one hand, we should approach learning as thinking instead of remembering. We should try to be an independent thinker and understand what has been taught instead of merely memorizing everything. (5-2)On the other hand, it is necessary for us to put our knowledge into practice. We must be able to apply the information to various situations when appropriate. (6)In conclusion, only by active learning can we be good students.
　　(1)引出第一种观点
　　(2)句际过渡
　　(3)转折连词构成段落过渡
　　(4)引出自己的情况
　　(5)说明两方面内容
　　(6)总结全文
　　MODEL TEST SEVEN
　　Part Ⅴ Writing
　　审题：日程安排的致辞。本文先向外国学生致欢迎词，然后进行自我介绍。重点在于说明一天的日程安排。接着对学校做一些描述。最后是结束语。
　　写作思路：第一段：欢迎外国学生的到来。
　　第二段：详细说明日程安排。
　　第三段：介绍学校。
　　第四段：结束语。
　　A Brief Introduction to My University
　　Dear friends,
　　(1)Welcome to our university. (2)To begin with, I am Huck, a member of the students' union of the university. It is my pleasure to show you around the campus.
　　(3)Now to share the schedule with you, we will set out at half past nine. According to the schedule, we will visit the library, the gym and the canteen first. (4)In addition, we will have a free lunch in the canteen. In the afternoon, we will attend the English corner, where you will meet a lot of students and exchange ideas with each other.
　　(5)As some of you may know, our university is one of the best known all over the country. There are 21 departments in our university, with more than 3,000 students and 150 teachers. I am sure that you will have a nice day here. 
　　Thank you very much for your attention.
　　(1)表示欢迎
　　(2)引起下文
　　(3)过渡自然
　　(4)补充说明
　　(5)引出下文
　　MODEL TEST EIGHT
　　PartⅤ Writing
　　审题：议论文。本文是对社会现象进行分析，然后提出自己的观点。首先举出打折这一现象，然后分析人们对此兴趣减少的缘由，最后得出结论，高质量和良好的售后服务才能真正吸引顾客。
　　写作思路：第一段：商家通过打折吸引顾客。
　　第二段：人们对打折的兴趣减少。
　　第三段：高质量和良好的售后服务是关键。
　　How to Really Interest Customers
　　Various businessmen provide discounts (1)in order to attract more customers. Low price is quite appealing to those who are short of money or want to save money. In fact, this strategy has brought in a great number of customers for the businessmen over the past decades.
　　(2)However, this strategy has been losing its effect in recent years. Price no longer functions as a determinant factor in the choice of most people. They are (3)increasingly aware of the importance of the quality of the goods.
　　(4)In my opinion, there are two main ways to really attract customers. (5-1)On the one hand, the businessman must make full efforts to improve the quality of their products. (5-2)On the other hand, good after-sales services must be provided to meet customer needs. (6)Only by doing so can a businessman really interest more and more customers.
　　(1)表示目的
　　(2)转折连词构成段落过渡
　　(3)表示"越来越"
　　(4)引出自己的观点
　　(5)说明两方面内容
　　(6)总结全文 






16