作文模板大全
第一部分记叙文题型作文diy
写作步骤
　　要求考生写一篇记叙文，描述事件发生的时间、地点、原因、人物及结果，最后对事件进行简单分析，如：2003年6月四级作文、2003年9月四级作文、2004年6月六级作文。对这类题型，通常分为三个步骤来写：
　　第一段、总结描述
　　交代清楚故事涉及的人物、时间、地点：
　　主题句
　　第二段、具体描述
　　具体描述事件发生的原因、经过和结果
　　起因＋经过＋结果
　　第三段、对事件的分析
　　分析句1+分析句2+分析3
第二部分、记叙文题型作文diy写作范文练习
［实战演练］
　　directions：for this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic the day my classmate fell ill.
　　1、简单描述一下这位同学生病的情况；
2、同学、老师和我是如何帮助他的；
　　3、人和人之间的这种相互关爱给我的感受是....
［diy写作模板：架构阶段］
　　第一段：
　　开篇句：about _____ o'clock one evening in _______, _____.
　　扩展句：________. (展开描述一下事件)　　　　　　
　　第二段：
主题句：without hesitation, _____. it wasn't long before _____.
　　扩展句：1、one ______.
　　　　　　2、another _______.
　　　　　　3、our teacher _______.
　　第三段：
　　结尾句：is _______? who can tell ? but ______.
　　扩展句：1、when ____ , people showed _____ spirit regardless of ____.
　　　　　　2、this kind of care between persons is the very kind giving, unselfish and priceless devotion or sacrifice.
　　　　　　3、and it is just because of this care that we can have warm families, a happy life and a beautiful world.
［diy写作模板：填充阶段］
　　第一段：
开篇句：about nine o'clock one evening in may, my roommate li ming was lying in bed, trembling with cold and having a cough.
　　扩展句：his head was aching so intensely that he kept groaning. his forehead felt very hot. we took his temperature. it was 38.5℃. (展开描述一下事件) 　　　　　　
　　第二段：
主题句：without hesitation, i dialed "120". it wasn't long before an ambulance arrived.
　　扩展句：1、one roommate brought a blanket for him.
　　　　　　2、another supported him in the ambulance.
　　　　　　3、our teacher insisted on giving him some money.
　　第三段：
　　结尾句：is he a suspedted sars patient? who can tell ? but we did't retreat.
　　扩展句：1、when the savage sars was spreading, people showed fearless spirit regardless of dangers to their own health.
　　　　　　2、this kind of care between persons is the very kind giving, unselfish and priceless devotion or sacrifice.
　　　　　　3、and it is just because of this care that we can have warm families, a happy life and a beautiful world.
第三部分、范文
　　about nine o'clock one evening in may, my roommate li ming was lying in bed, trembling with cold and having a cough.his head was aching so intensely that he kept groaning. his forehead felt very hot. we took his temperature. it was 38.5℃. 　　　　　　
　　without hesitation, i dialed "120". it wasn't long before an ambulance arrived. one roommate brought a blanket for him. another supported him in the ambulance. our teacher insisted on giving him some money.
　　is he a suspedted sars patient? who can tell ? but we did't retreat. when the savage sars was spreading, people showed fearless spirit regardless of dangers to their own health.this kind of care between persons is the very kind giving, unselfish and priceless devotion or sacrifice.and it is just because of this care that we can have warm families, a happy life and a beautiful world.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
第一部分、四六级作文：正反观点题型作文diy
写作步骤
　　要求考生从正反两个方面来论证某一观点，如2000年6月四级作文、1996年6月四六级作文、1996年1月英语四六级作文。对这类题型，通常分为四个步骤来写：
　　第一段、文章开头，简单一下事件
　　第二段、阐述提纲中列举的第一种看法，给出理由或者举例说明：
　　主题句＋理由/举例1+理由/举例2+理由/举例3
　　第三段、阐述提纲中列举的第一种看法，给出理由或者举例说明：
　　主题句＋理由/举例1+理由/举例2+理由/举例3
　　第四段、表明自己的观点结束全文
在结尾的时候，一定要表明自己的观点。
第二部分、正反观点题型作文diy写作范文练习
［实战演练］
　　directions：for this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic china jointing wto. you should write at least 120 words and you should base your composition on the outline below:
　　1、加入wto给我们带来的好处；
2、加入wto给我们带来的不利方面；
　　3、我们该如何做。
［diy写作模板：架构阶段］
　　第一段：文章的开头
　　开篇句句：________finally succeeded in _____ after many's efforts.
　　扩展句：_____ will influence _____ greatly.
　　第二段：表达正面观点
主题句：____ brings ____ many benefits and opportunities.
　　扩展句：1、as _____ , ______ can ______.
　　　　　　2、what's more, __________.
　　第三段：表达反面观点
主题句：every thing has two aspects.
　　扩展句：1、___ can also bring us some challenges. for example, ______.
　　　　　　2、in addition, it will be more difficult for _____ to _____, as ____.　　　　　　
　　第四段：结尾，表明自己看法
　　结尾句：however, ____ does more good than harm to ____.
　　扩展句：what we should do is to ______.
［diy写作模板：填充阶段］
　　第一段：文章的开头
　　开篇句句：china finally succeeded in jointing the wto after many's efforts.
　　扩展句：this event will influence the economy in china greatly
　　第二段：表达正面观点
主题句：jointing the wto brings china many benefits and opportunities.
　　扩展句：1、as a member coutry, china can enjoy many rights that can boost the development of the economy in china.
　　　　　　2、what's more, the chinese people can buy productd of high quality with less pay.
　　第三段：表达反面观点
主题句：every thing has two aspects.
　　扩展句：1、joining the wto can also bring us some challenges. for example, some producers may be wiped out because of the intense competition.
2、in addition, it will be more difficult for us to get a job, as the requirement for the employees will become higher.　　　　　　
　　第四段：结尾，表明自己看法
　　结尾句：however, this great event does more good than harm to us.
　　扩展句：what we should do is to improve ourselves to become qualified for certain positions and live a better life.
第三部分、范文
　　china finally succeeded in jointing the wto after many's efforts.this event will influence the economy in china greatly.
　　jointing the wto brings china many benefits and opportunities.as a member coutry, china can enjoy many rights that can boost the development of the economy in china.what's more, the chinese people can buy productd of high quality with less pay.
　　every thing has two aspects.joining the wto can also bring us some challenges. for example, some producers may be wiped out because of the intense competition. in addition, it will be more difficult for us to get a job, as the requirement for the employees will become higher.
　　however, this great event does more good than harm to us.what we should do is to improve ourselves to become qualified for certain positions and live a better life.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
第一部分、四六级作文：英文信函题型作文diy
写作步骤
　　要求考生根据提纲写一封英文书信，如2005年12月六级作文、2005年1月四六级作文、2004年6月四六级作文、2004年1月四级作文。对这类题型，通常分为5个步骤来写：
　　第一、文章开头：称呼
　　第二段、寒暄语句，引出写信的目的：
　　寒暄句＋主题句（注：寒暄句和主题句可以是同一个句子）
　　第三段、根据提纲扩展主体段落：
　　主题句＋扩展句1+扩展句2+扩展句3
　　第四段、表明自己的观点，并结束书信主体段落
　　在最后要他谈自己的看法
　　第五段、寒暄句+落款
第二部分、英文信函题型作文diy写作范文练习
［实战演练］
　　directions：for this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a composition on the topic a letter to the university president about the canteen service campus. you should write at least 120 words and you should base your composition on the outline below:
　　假如你是李明，请你就本学校食堂的状况给校长写一封信，内容应包括：食堂的饭菜质量、价格、环境、服务等，可以是表扬，也可以是批评建议，也可以都有。
［diy写作模板：架构阶段］
第一段：称呼
　　dear mr. president,
　　第二段：引出写信的目的
主题句： this letter comes to you from ____.
　　扩展句： in it, some opinions are put forward for you to reflect upon
　　第三段：对学校食堂正面的看法
主题句：as you know, _____ . but unfortunately, ______.
　　扩展句：1、___. (举例) as a result, _____.
　　　　　　2、besides, ______.　　
　　　　　　3、and what's more, _____.
第四段：对学校食堂负面的看法
主题句：some people may argue that ____.
　　扩展句：1、for instance, ____ and ____.
　　　　　　2、but in my opinon, ______.　　
　　第五段：结尾，表明自己看法
　　结尾句：to be belief, though a bit dissatisfied with _____.
　　扩展句：i do believe that, with the efforts of all people concerned, we can solved the problems there. thanks.　li ming
［diy写作模板：填充阶段］
　　第一段：称呼
　　dear mr. president,
　　第二段：引出写信的目的
主题句： this letter comes to you from one of your students.
　　扩展句： in it, some opinions are put forward for you to reflect upon
　　第三段：对学校食堂的看法
主题句：as you know, our students are the main customers of the university canteen. but unfortunately, we don't find the service there satisfying sometimes.
    扩展句：
1、the food is not as nutritious as it should be. (举例) as a result, some of us become thinner and weaker at university.
　　2、besides, sometimes the canteen people just bring us steamed bread with their dirty bare hands.　　
　　3、and what's more, the fare is also a little higher at university.
　　第四段：别人对食堂看法
主题句：some people may argue that measures have been taken and things are improving there.
扩展句：
1、for instance, ic cards have taken the place of money in the canteed, and the attitude of the service people is also changing.
2、but in my opinon, progress is not so quick and thorough.　　
　　第五段：结尾，表明自己看法
　　结尾句：to be belief, though a bit dissatisfied with the present canteen conditions,
　　扩展句：i do believe that, with the efforts of all people concerned, we can solved the problems there. thanks.　
第三部分、范文
dear mr. president,
　　this letter comes to you from one of your students.in it, some opinions are put forward for you to reflect upon.　　
　　as you know, our students are the main customers of the university canteen. but unfortunately, we don't find the service there satisfying sometimes.the food is not as nutritious as it should be. as a result, some of us become thinner and weaker at university.besides, sometimes the canteen people just bring us steamed bread with their dirty bare hands.and what's more, the fare is also a little higher at university.
　　some people may argue that measures have been taken and things are improving there.for instance, ic cards have taken the place of money in the canteed, and the attitude of the service people is also changing.but in my opinon, progress is not so quick and thorough.

百变句子开头使你的句型多变 
1.以同位语作为句子的开头。 
　The most popular teacher in Neworiental, Ma Zihui, will attend the party.  2.以单个修饰语作为句子的开头。
这个修饰语可以是形容词、分词或副词。 
Young and ambitious,JieYu works hard to teach Englsih. 
Secretly, the girl entered the room. 
With a book in her hands, Fang Meng talked to a foreigner. 
　　Exhausted, the students reached the top of the mountain. 
3.以短语修饰语作为句子的开头。 
短语修饰语可以是介词短语、不定式短语、分词短语以及独立主格结构。 
　　In front of me stood a beautiful girl. 
　　To pass the exam, the students worked hard. 
　　Confused about the problem, he went to ask for his teacher. 
　　Your homework finished, you may go home. 
　　4.用从句作为句子的开始。 
　　If I am free, I will attend your lecture. 
　　Whenever one goes, whatever one does, one needs money.
考研英语小作文开头常用短语句式
(1) With the (rapidly) growing popularity of (computers/private cars) in China, the quality of our lives has been considerably changed.
(2) With the (rapid) growth of (our economy/population), many problems such as (water shortages/waste of energy/lack of professionals and chaotic management) are beginng to surface
(3) With the development of (science and technology/market economy), more and more/an increasing number of people come to realize that ...
(4) Currently there is a widespread/serious concern over (illegal publication/drug abuse/negative influence of western cultures).
(5) Nowadays, a heated debated/discussion about...is under way in China .some people believe that ..., whereas others argue that...
(6) There are some reasons for owning (private cars/ personal computers). To begin with,... Next,... Last, ... There are, on the oher hand, many reasons against it. First, ... Second,... Finally,...
(7) There are many advantanges and disadvantages in (owning a car).
(8) There are various /at least three ways/possible techniques/problems/methods to do something
(9) Smoking/Alcoholic beverage should be banned from college campuses for toe reasons. The first reason is that ... The second reason is that ... /On the one hand , ... On the other hand. ...
(10) The possible solutions of (the enery crisis/water shortanges/these social problems) depend on three factors...
(11) The tow major reasons responsible for (the rapid economic growth /the widespread of fake products ) are...

语高分作文必须要记住的二十六句式
一、~~~ the + ~ est + 名词 + (that) + 主词 + have ever + seen ( known/heard/had/read, etc)   
~~~ the most + 形容词 + 名词 + (that) + 主词 + have ever + seen ( known/heard/had/read, etc 
例句：Helen is the most beautiful girl that I have ever seen.   
         海伦是我所看过最美丽的女孩。 
Mr. Chang is the kindest teacher that I have ever had.   
         张老师是我曾经遇到最仁慈的教师。 
二、Nothing is + ~~~ er than to + V Nothing is + more + 形容词 + than to + V   
例句：Nothing is more important than to receive education.   
       没有比接受教育更重要的事。 
三、~~~ cannot emphasize the importance of ~~~ too much.（再怎么强调...的重要性也不为过。） 
例句：We cannot emphasize the importance of protecting our eyes too much.   我们再怎么强调保护眼睛的重要性也不为过。 
四、There is no denying that + S + V ...（不可否认的...）   
例句：There is no denying that the qualities of our living have gone from bad to worse.  不可否认的，我们的生活品质已经每况愈下。 
五、It is universally acknowledged that + 句子~~ （全世界都知道...） 
例句：It is universally acknowledged that trees are indispensable to us.   
           全世界都知道树木对我们是不可或缺的。 
六、There is no doubt that + 句子~~ （毫无疑问的...） 
例句：There is no doubt that our educational system leaves something to be desired.    毫无疑问的我们的教育制度令人不满意。 
七、An advantage of ~~~ is that + 句子 （...的优点是...） 
例句：An advantage of using the solar energy is that it won't create (produce) any pollution.   使用太阳能的优点是它不会制造任何污染。 
八、The reason why + 句子 ~~~ is that + 句子 （...的原因是...）   
例句：The reason why we have to grow trees is that they can provide us with fresh air./ The reason why we have to grow trees is that they can supply fresh air for us. 我们必须种树的原因是它们能供应我们新鲜的空气。 
九、The　+　~er　+　S　+　V,　~~~　the　+　~er　+　S　+　V　~~~　 
The　+　more　+　Adj　+　S　+　V,　~~~　the　+　more　+　Adj　+　S　+　V　~~~（愈...愈...） 
例句：The　harder　you　work,　the　more　progress　you　make.　 
                   你愈努力，你愈进步。
The　more　books　we　read,　the　more　learned　we　become.　 
                   我们书读愈多，我们愈有学问。 
十 、By　+Ving,　~~　can　~~　（借着...，..能够..） 
例句：By　taking　exercise,　we　can　always　stay　healthy.　 
           借着做运动，我们能够始终保持健康。 
十一、~~~　enable　+　Object（受词）+　to　+　V　（..使..能够..）　 
例句：Listening　to　music　enable　us　to　feel　relaxed.　 
          听音乐使我们能够感觉轻松。　 
十二、It　is　time　+　S　+　过去式　（该是...的时候了）　 
例句：It　is　time　the　authorities　concerned　took　proper　steps　to　solve　the　trafficproblems. 该是有关当局采取适当的措施来解决交通问题的时候了。 
十三、Those　who　~~~　（...的人...）　 
例句：Those　who　violate　traffic　regulations　should　be　punished.　 
           违反交通规定的人应该受处罚。
十四、be　+　forced/compelled/obliged　+　to　+　V　（不得不...）　 
例句：Since　the　examination　is　around　the　corner,　I　am　compelled　to　give　up　doing　sports. 既然考试迫在眉睫，我不得不放弃做运动。 
十五、It is　conceivable　that　+　句子　（可想而知的）　 
It　is　obvious　that　+　句子　（明显的）　 
It　is　apparent　that　+　句子　（显然的）　 
例句：It　is　conceivable　that　knowledge　plays　an　important　role　in　our　life.　可想而知，知识在我们的一生中扮演一个重要的角色。 
十六、That　is　the　reason　why　~~~　（那就是...的原因）　 
例句：Summer　is　sultry.　That　is　the　reason　why　I　don't　like　it.　 夏天很燠热。那就是我不喜欢它的原因。　 
十七、Since　+　S　+　过去式，S　+　现在完成式。　 
例句：Since　he　went　to　senior　high　school,　he　has　worked　very　hard.自从他上高中，他一直很用功。 
十八、be　based　on　（以...为基础）　 
例句：The　progress　of　the　society　is　based　on　harmony.　 
      社会的进步是以和谐为基础的。 
十九、be　closely　related　to　~~　（与...息息相关）　 
例句：Taking　exercise　is　closely　related　to　health.　 
       做运动与健康息息相关。 　 
二十、Get　into　the　habit　of　+　Ving　 
=　make　it　a　rule　to　+　V　（养成...的习惯）　 
例句：We　should　get　into　the　habit　of　keeping　good　hours.　 
      我们应该养成早睡早起的习惯。　 
二十一、What　a　+　Adj　+　N　+　S　+　V! =　How　+　Adj　+　a　+　N　+　V!（多么...！）　 
例句：What　an　important　thing　it　is　to　keep　our　promise!　 
How　important　a　thing　it　is　to　keep　our　promise!　 
       遵守诺言是多么重要的事！ 
二十二、Leave　much　to　be　desired　（令人不满意）　 
例句：The　condition　of　our　traffic　leaves　much　to　be　desired.　 
       我们的交通状况令人不满意。 
二十三、Have　a　great　influence　on　~~~　（对...有很大的影响）　 
例句：Smoking　has　a　great　influence　on　our　health.　 
       抽烟对我们的健康有很大的影响。 
二十四、do　good　to　（对...有益），do　harm　to　（对...有害）　 
例句：Reading　does　good　to　our　mind.读书对心灵有益。　 
Overwork　does　harm　to　health.工作过度对健康有害。 
二十五、Pose　a　great　threat　to　~~　（对...造成一大威胁）　 
例句：Pollution　poses　a　great　threat　to　our　existence.　 
                       污染对我们的生存造成一大威胁。 
二十六、do　one's　utmost　to　+　V　=　do　one's　best　（尽全力去...）　 
例句：We　should　do　our　utmost　to　achieve　our　goal　in　life.　 
                         我们应尽全力去达成我们的人生目标。
英语四六级作文套句总结
开头 
Recently, the problem of … has aroused people's concern. 
最近,…问题已引起人们的关注. 
Internet has been playing an increasingly important role in our day-to-day life. It has brought a lot of benefits but has created some serious problems as well. 
互联网已在我们的生活中扮演着越来越重要的角色.它给我们带来了许多好处,但也产生了一些严重的问题.
Nowadays, (overpopulation) has become a problem we have to face. 
如今,(人口过剩)已成为我们不得不面对的问题了. 
It is commonly believed that… / It is a common belief that… 
人们一般认为… 
Many people insist that… 
很多人坚持认为… 
With the development of science and technology, more and more people believe that … 随着科技的发展,越来越多的人认为… 
A lot of people seem to think that… 
很多人似乎认为… 
结尾 
Taking all these factors into consideration, we naturally come to the conclusion that… 
把所有这些因素加以考虑,我们自然会得出结论… 
Taking into account all these factors, we may reasonably come to the conclusion that … 考虑所有这些因素, 我们可能会得出合理的结论…
Hence/Therefore, we'd better come to the conclusion that… 
因此,我们最好得出这样的结论… 
There is no doubt that (job-hopping) has its drawbacks as well as merits. 
毫无疑问,跳槽有优点也有缺点. 
All in all, we cannot live without… But at the same time we must try to find out new ways to cope with the problems that would arise. 
总之,我们没有…是无法生活的.但同时,我们必须寻求新的解决办法来对付可能出现的新问题.
引出不同观点: 
People's views on… vary from person to person. Some hold that… . However, others believe that….
人们对…的观点因人而异.有些人认为….. 然而其他人却认为．．． 
People may have different opinions on…
人们对…可能会有不同的见解. 
Attitudes towards (drugs) vary from person to person.
人们对待吸毒的态度因人而异. 
There are different opinions among people as to… 
关于…. 人们的观点大不相同. 
Different people hold different attitudes toward (failure). 对(失败)人们的态度各不相同. 
提出建议: 
It is high time that we put an end to the (trend).该是我们停止这一趋势的时候了. 
It is time to take the advice of … and to put special emphasis on the improvement of … 
该是采纳…的建议,并对…的进展给予特殊重视的时候了. 
There is no doubt that enough concern must be paid to the problem of … 
毫无疑问,对…问题应予以足够的重视. 
Obviously,…. If we want to do something… , it is essential that… 
显然,如果我们想做某事,很重要的是… 
Only in this way can we…    只有这样,我们才能… 
It must be realized that… 我们必须意识到… 
预示后果: 
Obviously, if we don't control the problem, the chances are that… will lead us in danger. 很明显,如果我们不能控制这一问题,很有可能我们会陷入危险.
No doubt, unless we take effective measures, it is very likely that… 
毫无疑问,除非我们采取有效措施,很可能会… 
It is urgent that immediate measures should be taken to stop the situation. 
很紧迫的是,应立即采取措施阻止这一事态的发展.
论证
From my point of view, it is more reasonable to support the first opinion rather than the second. 在我看来,支持第一种观点比支持第二种观点更有道理. 
I cannot entirely agree with the idea that… 我无法完全同意这一观点…. 
Personally, I am standing on the side of …就个人而言, 我站在…的一边. 
I sincerely believe that… 我真诚地相信… 
In my opinion, it is more advisable to do … than to do…. 
在我个人看来,做…比做…更明智. 
Finally, to speak frankly, there is also a more practical reason why… 
给出原因: 
This phenomenon exists for a number of reasons. First, … Second, … Third, … 
这一现象的存在是有许多原因的.首先, … 第二, … 第三,… 
Why did… ? For one thing… For another…. Perhaps the primary reason is… 
为什么会…? 一个原因是… 令一个原因是…或许其主要原因是…. 
I quite agree with the statement that… the reasons are chiefly as follows. 
我十分赞同这一论述,即…,其主要原因如下: 
列出解决办法: 
Here are some suggestions for handling… 
这是如何处理某事的一些建议. 
The best way to solve the troubles is…   
解决这些麻烦的最好办法是… 
People have figured out many ways to solve this problem.
人们已找出许多办法来解决这个问题.
批判错误观点和做法: 
As far as something is concerned, …. 就某事而言,… 
It was obvious that…      很显然,…. 
It may be true that…, but it doesn't mean that…    
可能…是对的,但这并不意味着… 
It is natural to believe that… , but we shouldn't ignore that… 
认为….是很自然的,但我们不应忽视…. 
There is no evidence to suggest that… 没有证据表明… 
过渡词 
强调 
still, Indeed, apparently, oddly enough, of course, after all, significantly, interestingly, also, above all, surely, certainly, undoubtedly, in any case, anyway, above all, in fact, especially, obviously, clearly. 
比较 
like, similarly, likewise, in the same way, in the same manner, equally. 
对比 
by contrast, on the contrary, while, whereas, on the other hand, unlike, instead, but, conversely, different from, however, nevertheless, otherwise, whereas, unlike, yet, in contrast. 
列举 
for example, for instance, such as, take …for example. Except (for), to illustrate. 
时间 
later, next, then, finally, at last, eventually, meanwhile, from now on, at the same time, for the time being, in the end, immediately, in the meantime, in the meanwhile, recently, soon, now and then, during,nowadays, since, lately, as soon as, afterwards,
temporarily, earlier, now, after a while. 
顺序 
first, second, third, then, finally, to begin with, first of all, in the first place, last, next, above all, last but not the least, first and most important.
可能 
presumably, probably, perhaps. 
解释 
in other words, in fact, as a matter of fact, that is, namely, in simpler terms. 
递进 
What is more, in addition, and, besides, also, furthermore, too, moreover, furthermore, as well as, additionally, again. 
让步 
although, after all, in spite of…, despite, even if, even though, though, admittedly, whatever may happen. 
转折 
however, rather than, instead of, but, yet, on theother hand, unfortunately. whereas 
原因 
for this reason, due to, thanks to, because, because of, as, since, owing to. 
结果 
as a result, thus, hence, so, therefore, accordingly, consequently, as consequence. 
总结 
on the whole, in conclusion, in a word, to sum up, in brief, in summary, to conclude, to summarize, in short. 
其他 
Mostly, occasionally, currently, naturally, mainly, exactly, evidently, frankly, commonly, for this purpose, to a large extent, for most of us, in many cases, in this case
图表作文常用句型 
As is shown in the graph…    如图所示… 
The graph shows that…   图表显示… 
As can be seen from the table, …   从表格中可以看出… 
From the chart, we know that…   从这张表中,我们可知…
All these data clearly prove the fact that… 
所有这些数据明显证明这一事实,即… 
The increase of …. in the city has reached to 20%.
这个城市的….增长已达到20%.
In 1985, the number remained the same.
1985年,这个数字保持不变.
There was a gradual decline in 1989.
1989年,出现了逐渐下降的情况.

英语四六级作文基本句式总结1
英语四六级作文基本句式
下面是四六级作文写作中使用率最高、覆盖面最广的基本句式，每组句式的功能相同或相似，考生可根据自己的情况选择其中的1－2个，做到能够熟练正确地仿写或套用。   
　　1．表示原因   
　　1）There are three reasons for this．   
　　2）The reasons for this are as follows．   
　　3）The reason for this is obvious．   
　　4）The reason for this is not far to seek．   
　　5）The reason for this is that．．．   
　　6）We have good reason to believe that．．．   
　　例如：   
　　There are three reasons for the changes that have taken place in our life．Firstly，people's living standard has been greatly improved．Secondly，most people are well paid， and they can afford what they need or like．Last but not least，more and more people prefer to enjoy modern life．   
　　注：如考生写第一个句子没有把握，可将其改写成两个句子。如：Great changes have taken place in our life． There are three reasons for this．这样写可以避免套用中的表达失误。   
　　2．表示好处   
　　1）It has the following advantages．   
　　2）It does us a lot of good．   
　　3）It benefits us quite a lot．   
　　4）It is beneficial to us．   
　　5）It is of great benefit to us．   
　　例如：   
　　Books are like friends．They ca n help us know the world better，and they can open our minds and widen our horizons．Therefore，reading extensively is of great benefit to us．   
　　3．表示坏处   
　　1）It has more disadvantages than advantages．   
　　2）It does us much harm．   
　　3）It is harmful to us．  
　　例如：   
　　However，everything dividesinto two．Television can also be harmful to us．It can do harm to our health and make us lazy if we spend too much time watching televi- sion．   
　　4．表示重要、必要、困难、方便、可能   
　　1）It is important（necessary，difficult，convenient， possible）for sb．to do sth．   
　　2）We think it necessary to do sth．   
　　3）It plays an important role in our life．   
　　例如：   
　　Computers are now being used everywhere，whether in the government，in schools or in business．Soon， computers will be found in every home，too．We have good reason to say that computers are playing an increasingly important role in our life and we have stepped into the Computer Age．   
　　5．表示措施   
　　1）We should take some effective measures．
2）We should try our best to overcome（con quer）the difficulties．   
　　3）We should do our utmost in doing sth．   
　　4）We should solve the problems that we are confronted（faced）with．   
　　例如：   
　　The housing problem that we are confronted with is becoming more and more serious．Therefore，we must take some effective measures to solve it．   
　　6．表示变化   
　　1）Some changes have taken place in the past five years．   
　　2）A great change will certainly be produced in the world's communications．   
　　3）The computer has brought about many changes in education．   
　　例如：   
　　Some changes have taken place in people's diet in the past five years．The major reasons for these changes are not far to seek．Nowadays，more and more people are switching from grain to meat for protein，and from fruit and vegetable to milk for vitamins．   
　　7．表示事实、现状   
　　1）We cannot ignore the fact that．．．   
　　2）No one can deny the fact that．．．   
　　3）There is no denying the fact that．．．   
　　4）This is a phenomenon that many people are interested in．   
　　5）However，that's not the&nb sp;case．   
　　例如：   
　　We cannot ignore the fact that industrialization brings with it the problems of pollution．To solve these problems， we can start by educating the public about the hazards of pollution．The government on its part should also design stricter laws to promote a cleaner environment．   
　　8．表示比较   
　　1）Compared with A，B．．．   
　　2）I prefer to read rather than watch TV．   
　　3）There is a striking contrast between them．   
　　例如：   
　　Compared with cars，bicycles have several advantages besides being affordable．Firstly，they do not consume natural resources of petroleum．Secondly，they do not cause the pollution problem．Last but not least，they contribute to people's health by giving them due physical exercise．   
　　9．表示数量   
　　1）It has increased（decreased）from．．．to．．．   
　　2）The population in this city has now increased （decreased）to 800，000．   
　　3）The output of July in this factory increased by 15％ compared with that of January．   
　　例如：   
　　With the improvement of the living standard，the proportion of people's income spent on food has dec reased while that spent on education has increased．   
　　再如：   
　　From the graph listed above，itcan be seen that student use of computers has increased from an average of less than two hours per week in 1990 to 20 hours in 2000．   
　　注："From the graph listed above，it can be seen that"见句式12。考生将句式9和句式12结合在一起，便可较好地写出2002年6月CET －4、6短文写作的第一段。   
　　10．表示看法   
　　1）People have（take，adopt，assume）different attitudes towards sth．   
　　2）People have different opinions on this problem．   
　　3）People take different views of（on）the question．   
　　4）Some people believe that．．．Others argue that．．．   
　　例如：   
　　People have different attitudes towards failure．Some believe that failure leads to success．   
　　Every failure they experience translates into a greater chance of success at their renewed endeavor．However， others are easily discouraged by failures and put themselves into the category of losers．   
　　再如：   
　　Do"lucky numbers really bring good luck？Different people have different views on it．   
　　注：一个段落有时很适宜以问句开始，考生应掌握这一写作方法。   
　　11．表示结论   
　　1）In short，it can be said that．．．
2）It may be briefly summed up as follows．   
　　3）From what has been mentioned above，we can come to the conclusion that ．．．   
　　例如：   
　　From what has been mentioned above，we can come to the conclusion that examination is necessary，however， its method should be improved．   
　　注：例句1可用于任何一个段落的结论句；例句3则多用文章结论段的第一句。   
　　12．套语   
　　1）It's well known to us that ．．．   
　　2）As is known to us，．．．   
　　3）This is a topic that is being widely talked about．   
　　4）From the graph（table，chart）listed above，it can be seen that ．．．   
　　5）As aproverb says，"Where there is a will，there is a way．    
　　例如：   
　　As is well known to us，it is important for the students to know the world outside campus．   
　　The reason for this is obvious．Nowadays，the society is changing and developing rapidly，and the campus is no longer an"ivory tower ．As college students，we must get in touch with the world outside the campus．Only in this way can we adapt ourselves to the society quickly after we graduate．   
　　再如：   Does it pay to be honest？This is a topic that is being widely talked about and different people have different opinions on it．
英语四六级(CET)作文经典：绝佳句型句式片
这些地道的句子结构!建议你背诵这篇英语作文2007年12月英语四六级(CET)作文经典：绝佳句型句式片，并提取其中的关键句型，活用到你的作文中去，就可以获得高分！ 
开头 
A proberb says, " You are only young once." （适用于已记住的名言）   
It goes without saying that we cannot be young forever. （适用于自编名言）   
As everyone knows, No one can deny that…   
According to a recent survey, about 78.90f the college students wanted to further their study after their graduation.   
主体 
to begin with, then, furthermore, finally（强烈推荐）   
to start with, next, in addition, finally（强烈推荐）   
first and foremost, besides, last but not least（强烈推荐）   
most important of all, moreover, finally   
on the one hand, on the other hand（适用于两点的情况）   
for one thing, for another thing（适用于两点的情况）   
in comparison, likewise, similarly, in the same manner   
on the other hand, conversely, whereas, while, instead, nevertheless, in contrast, on the contrary, compared with …, …   
结尾 
Obviously（此为过渡短语）, we can draw the conclusion that good manners arise from politeness and respect for others.   
to sum up, in conclusion, in brief, on account of this, thus   
Thus, it can be concluded that…, Therefore, we can find that…   
Obviously, it is high time that we took some measures to solve the problem.   
Accordingly, I recommend that some measures be taken.   
Consequently, to solve the problem, some measures should be taken.   
一、~~~ the + ~ est + 名词 + (that) + 主词 + have ever + seen ( known/heard/had/read, etc)   
~~~ the most + 形容词 + 名词 + (that) + 主词 + have ever + seen ( known/heard/had/read, etc)   
例句：Helen is the most beautiful girl that I have ever seen.   
二、Nothing is + ~~~ er than to + V Nothing is + more + 形容词 + than to + V   
例句：Nothing is more important than to receive education.   
三、~~~ cannot emphasize the importance of ~~~ too much.（再怎么强调...的重要性也不为过。）   
例句：We cannot emphasize the importance of protecting our eyes too much.   
四、There is no denying that + S + V ...（不可否认的...）   
例句：There is no denying that the qualities of our living have gone from bad to worse.   
五、It is universally acknowledged that + 句子~~ （全世界都知道...）   
例句：It is universally acknowledged that trees are indispensable to us.   
六、There is no doubt that + 句子~~ （毫无疑问的...）   
例句：There is no doubt that our educational system leaves something to be desired.   
七、An advantage of ~~~ is that + 句子 （...的优点是...）
例句：An advantage of using the solar energy is that it won't create (produce) any pollution.   
八、The reason why + 句子 ~~~ is that + 句子 （...的原因是...）   
例句：The reason why we have to grow trees is that they can provide us with fresh air./ The reason why we have to   
grow trees is that they can supply fresh air for us.   
九、So + 形容词 + be + 主词 + that + 句子 （如此...以致于...）   
例句：So precious is time that we can't afford to waste it.   
十、Adj + as + Subject（主词）+ be, S + V~~~ （虽然...）   
例句：Rich as our country is, the qualities of our living are by no means satisfactory. {by no means = in no way = on no account 一点也不}   
十一、On　no　account　can　we　　+　V　~~~　（我们绝对不能...）　   
例句：On　no　account　can　we　ignore　the　value　of　knowledge.　   
十二、It　is　time　+　S　+　过去式　（该是...的时候了）　   
例句：It　is　time　the　authorities　concerned　took　proper　steps　to　solve　the　traffic　problems.　   
十三、There　is　no　one　but　~~~　（没有人不...）　   
例句：There　is　no　one　but　longs　to　go　to　college.　   
十四、be　+　forced/compelled/obliged　+　to　+　V　（不得不...）　   
例句：Since　the　examination　is　around　the　corner,　I　am　compelled　to　give　up　doing　sports.　   
十五、It　pays　to　+　V　~~~　（...是值得的。）　   
例句：It　pays　to　help　others.　   
十六、Spare　no　effort　to　+　V　（不遗余力的）　   
例句：We　should　spare　no　effort　to　beautify　our　environment.　   
好句~~ 
一)比较     
1.The advantage far outweigh the disadvantages.    
2.The advantages of A are much greater than those of B.    
3.A may be preferable to B, but A suffers from the disadvantages that...    
4.It is reasonable to maintain that ...but it would be foolish to claim that...    
5.For all the disadvantages, it has its compensating advantages.    
6.Like anything else, it has its faults.    
7.A and B has several points in common.    
8.A bears some resemblances to B.    
9.However, the same is not applicable to B.    
10. A and B differ in several ways.    
11. Evidently, it has both negative and positive effects.    
12. People used to think ..., but things are different now.    
13. The same is true of B.     
14. Wondering as A is ,it has its drawbacks.    
15. It is true that A ... , but the chief faults (obvious defects )are ...    
二)原因    
1.A number of factors are accountable for this situation.   
A number of factors might contribute to (lead to )   (account for ) the phenomenon(problem).    
2. The answer to this problem involves many factors.    
3. The phenomenon mainly stems from the fact that...    
4. The factors that contribute to this situation include...    
5. The change in ...largely results from the fact that...    
6. We may blame ...,but the real causes are...    
7. Part of the explanations for it is that ...    
One of the most common factors (causes ) is that ...    
Another contributing factor (cause ) is ...    
Perhaps the primary factor is that …    
But the fundamental cause is that ...    
三)后果    
1. It may give rise to a host of problems.    
2. The immediate result it produces is ...    
3. It will exercise a profound influence upon...    
4. Its consequence can be so great that...    
四)批驳    
1)It is true that ..., but one vital point is being left out.    
2) There is a grain of truth in these statements, but they ignore a more important fact.    
3) Some people say ..., but it does not hold water.    
4) Many of us have been under the illusion that...    
5) A close examination would reveal how ridiculous the statement is.    
6) It makes no sense to argue for ...    
7) Too much stress placed on ... may lead to ...    
8) Such a statement mainly rests on the assumption that ...    
9) Contrary to what is widely accepted, I maintain that ...    
五)举例    
1) A good case in point is ...    
2) As an illustration, we may take ...    
3) Such examples might be given easily.    
4) ...is often cited as an example.    
六)证明    
1) No one can deny the fact that ...    
2) The idea is hardly supported by facts.    
3) Unfortunately, none of the available data shows ...    
4) Recent studies indicate that ...    
5) There is sufficient evidence to show that ...    
6) According to statistics proved by ..., it can be seen that ...    
七)开篇    
1) Many nations have been faced with the problem of ...    
2) Recently the problem has been brought into focus.    
3) Recently the phenomenon has become a heated&nbsp;topic.    
4) Recently the issue has aroused great concern among ... 
5) Nowadays there is a growing concern over ...    
6) Never in our history has the idea that ... been so popular.    
7) Faced with ..., quite a few people argue that ...    
8) According to a recent survey, ...    
9) With the rapid development of ..., ...    
八)结尾    
1) From what has been discussed above, we can draw the conclusion that ...    
2) It is high time that strict measures were taken to stop ...    
3) It is necessary that steps should be taken to ...    
4) In conclusion, it is imperative that ...    
5) There is no easy method, but ...might be of some help.    
6) To solve the above-mentioned problem, we must ...    
7) In summary, if we continue to ignore the above mentioned issue, more problems will crop up.    
8) With the efforts of all parts concerned, the problem will be solved thoroughly. 
9) We might do more than identify the cause ; it is important to take actions to ...    
10) Taking all these into account, we ...    
11) Whether it is good or not /positive or negative, one thing is certain/clea
六级写作材料
六级写作补充范文
1．（2005年1月六级真题）
Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write an open letter on behalf of the Student Union asking people to give help to a student who is seriously ill. You should write at least 150 words following the outline given below:
对病人的简单介绍：目前的病情和家庭情况
目前的困难：无法承担医疗费用，需要护理
希望捐助；联系方式
Your Help Needed
Dear friends,
I am writing to you, on behalf of the Student Union, to ask for your help for Li Ming, a schoolmate of ours from the Department of Computer Science. He is seriously ill now and has to have a heart transplant at once. To make things worse, he comes from the west of our country and his family is quite poor. 
Li Ming is now confronted with the following difficulties. To begin with, he can't afford the medical expenses. His family doesn't have a good financial background. Moreover, his parents have already been deep in debt in order to send him to university. In addition, his family is far away and he needs someone to take care of him day and night. Only with intense care can our friend recover from his disease. 
On no account can we see our friend suffer or die. He is in desperate need of your help, especially financial donations to help him pay for his expenses. Let's all give him our hands. Anyone who wants to offer help can contact us at 88588858 or you can email us by love@sina    . Please act without delay. 
Yours sincerely, 
Zhang Hua
Chairman of the Student Union
2．（2005年6月六级真题）
Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a short essay entitled Say No to Pirated Products. You should write at least 150 words following the outline given below:
目前盗版的现象比较严重
造成这种现象的原因及其危害
我们应该怎么做
Useful words and expressions:
盗版：piracy (n.)
盗版产品：pirated products
知识产权：intellectual property rights
侵犯版权：infringe sb's copyright; copyright infringement
Say No to Pirated Products
Piracy is a serious problem with which this country is confronted. In many places we see people peddling pirated books or disks. Actually, piracy has become so widespread that it has severely hindered the development of the nation's economy.
A number of factors account for the problem, but the following are the most critical ones. First, pirated products are much cheaper than copyrighted ones, so they are very attractive to people, especially youngsters, who are not financially well-off. Secondly, with highly developed technology, it is not difficult to manufacture pirated products. With one authorized copy, the illegal producers can make thousands of fake ones at a very low cost, thus making huge profits. 
As a result, intellectual property rights are severely infringed upon. Honest producers will lose the motivation to develop new products. Meanwhile, pirated products are often of low quality, thus damaging the interest of buyers. 
In view of the seriousness of the problem, it is essential that laws and regulations be formulated and enforced to ban the manufacture and circulation of pirated products. Meanwhile, people should be educated to say no to these products. With these measures taken, we have reasons to believe that the problem can be solved in the near future. 
3．（2005年12月六级真题）
Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a letter to a company declining a job offer. You should write at least 150 words following the outline given below:
对公司提供职位表示感谢
解释为何不能接受所提供的职位
希望予以谅解，并表示对公司的良好祝愿
A Letter Declining a Job Offer
December 24, 2005
Dear Sir or Madam:
I am responding to your job offer on December 20, 2005. I was informed that I would be offered the position as an interpreter for your company. I cordially appreciate your trust and I am much obliged to you for providing me with this valuable opportunity. 
However, I have to tell you that I cannot accept it. The major reason is that I don't think I am the most appropriate candidate for this post. As a non-English major, though my written and spoken English are outstanding than most of my peers, I am not well trained in translation, not to mention interpretation, which, I believe is highly demanding. Maybe my performance in the oral examination has misled you. Actually, I am more interested and more competent in my own major, that is, program designing. Last but not least, I happened to have been offered such a position with another company. 
Nonetheless, I, again, want to express my sincere gratefulness and I earnestly apologize for any inconvenience hereby caused. Finally, I hope you can find the ideal candidate as soon as possible. 
Best regards.
Yours sincerely 
Li Ming
4．（2006年6月六级真题）
Directions: For this part, you are allowed thirty minutes to write a short essay entitled Traveling Abroad. You should write at least 150 words based on the chart and the outline given below:
Number of people in City X traveling abroad in 1995, 2000 and 2005
1. 近十年来X市有越来越多的人选择出境旅游
2. 出现这一现象的原因
3．这种现象可能产生的影响
Traveling Abroad
It can be seen from the chart that there have been sharp increases in the number of people traveling abroad in City X in the past decade. As the chart shows, the year 1995 witnessed only about 10,000 people from this city touring abroad. In 2000, the number soared to nearly 40,000. Last year, more than 120,000 people in the city chose to spend their vacations outside China. 
A number of factors account for the change in the chart, but the following are the most critical ones. First, thanks to the policy of reform and opening-up, the nation's economy has been developing at a considerably high speed in the past decades. Therefore, the people have more extra money for traveling. Secondly, other relevant state policies and the boom of touring industry provide citizens with more opportunities to go out and see the world. Last but not least, people have attached greater importance to the quality of life, thus they spend more money and time traveling and sight-seeing. 
In a word, this chart is a perfect indicator of China's fast expanding economy and people's rising standard of life. The trend of traveling abroad will further stimulate the development of our economy and broaden people's horizons. 
5．（2006年12月老六级真题）
Directions: For this part you are allowed 30 minutes to write a short essay entitled The Celebration of Western Festivals. You should write at least 150 words following the outline given below.
1. 现在国内有不少人喜欢过西方的某些节日
2. 产生这种现象的原因
3. 这种现象可能带来的影响
The Celebration of Western Festivals
No one can have failed to notice the fact that an increasing number of Chinese are fond of celebrating some Western festivals today. For instance, on Valentine's Day, many people give flowers or chocolate to the one they love. Another case in point is Christmas. It seems that people around the country now love to celebrate the festival. 
A number of factors account for the phenomenon mentioned above, but the following might be the critical ones. In the first place, due to the policy of reform and opening-up, Chinese people tend to know more about Western culture and be influenced by it. Secondly, some businessmen wish to make money by encouraging people to celebrate those Western festivals. Last but not least, as traditional Chinese festival lose their attraction, many people tend to find joy in Western festivals. 
Though we need not criticize people celebrating Western festivals, nor can we stop them, we have to beware of the danger behind it. While enjoying the atmosphere brought by those Western customs, we might well lose our own tradition and identity. 
6．（2006年12月新六级真题）
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write a short essay entitled The Importance of Reading Classics. You should write at least 150 words following the outline given below.
1．阅读经典书籍对人的成长至关重要
2．现在愿意阅读经典的人却越来越少，原因是……
3．我们大学生应该怎么做
The Importance of Reading Classics
Reading classics plays a vital role in a person's growth. By reading classic works, either Chinese or foreign, one can learn a great deal about history, geography, politics, wars and customs. Besides, as these classics are the outstanding representatives human language, reading them can enormously improve our ability to read and write and to inherit cultural traditions. 
However, a diminishing number of people would like to read classics now. A variety of factors may have contributed to this phenomenon, but the following are the critical one. In the first place, as the pace of life and work quickens, people can find little time to indulge themselves in thick and serious works. They would rather read light and easy magazines or surf the Internet and do online reading. In the second place, most classics depict things far away from our real life, which makes reading them seem irrelevant. 
As college students, we should shoulder the burden of inheriting and developing cultural heritage. Therefore, it is essential that we should make plans to read classics regularly. Besides, we should try to influence people around us into reading them. 
7．Keeping Pets
There is no denying the fact that keeping pets is a hotly debated topic today. Some people think keeping pets is a good thing to do. They believe that pets, like cats and dogs, can help relieve the loneliness suffered by senior citizens and other social members who are confined to their homes for this reason or that. They also argue that keeping pets helps mankind understand animals' world and develop positive feelings toward them.
Others, however, hold the opposite view. They regard keeping pets as a useless but harmful thing to do. First, pets can transmit diseases. Secondly, the noises and dung of pets are sources of pollution. Last but not least, as many rare birds and animals are kept as pets, they will surely be hunted on a large scale, which means a threat to the balance of the ecosystem. 
Weighing the pros and cons of these arguments, I am inclined to agree with the latter. Anyway, we can lessen our loneliness and express our love toward animals in other ways. And it is my belief that only by placing man and other species on an equal basis can we expect to have a lively and colorful world.
8. Where There Is a Will, There Is a Way
A well-known proverb goes that "where there is a will, there is a way", which means that one can find a way to success as long as he or she has a strong will. With a strong will, one can focus all his energy on one point, which makes his success possible. Without a strong will, however, one can be easily distracted from his goal or discouraged by setbacks, which leads to his ultimate failure.
History abounds with examples of strong-willed figures winning success. Actually, there is no better illustration of the proverb than the deeds of Gou Jian, king of Yue in ancient China. Defeated by Fu Chai, king of Wu, Gou tried every means possible to steel his will. Eventually, with the help of Fan Li and Xi Shi, he managed to rebuild his country and his armies and had Fu Chai taste the bitterness of failure. 
In short, a strong will is essential if we want to make achievements in our studies or work, or indeed in any other aspect of our lives. One should lose no chance to strength his will and remember, God helps those who help themselves.
9. More Students Pursue Master Degrees
It can be seen from the chart that there have been sharp increases in the number of students attending graduate entrance exams in a college in the past decades. As the chart shows, the year 1996 witnessed only 200 students taking part in the exams. In 2001, the number nearly doubled. In 2006, far more students prepared themselves for graduate studies. 
A number of factors could account for the change in the chart, but the following are the most critical ones. First, thanks to the policy of reform and opening-up, the nation's economy has been developing at a considerably high speed in the past decades. Therefore, the people have more extra money for education. Secondly, other relevant state policies and the boom of higher education provide students with more opportunities to pursue higher degrees. Last but not least, the increasingly fierce competition forces college students to further their study in order to gain more edge of competition. 
In a word, this chart is a perfect indicator of China's fast expanding higher education. Although many problems have arisen in the process, we have every reason to believe that they can be solved in the near future with effective measures taken. 
10. Studying Abroad: Hardships and Rewards
The recent years have seen a dramatic increase in the number of Chinese studying abroad. Obviously, studying abroad has its rewards. In the first place, a student can have access to advanced science and technology as well as desirable working conditions which might not be available at home. In the second place, he can be exposed to entirely new ideas and trends. Last but not least, by living and studying in a foreign country, one can improve his foreign language much faster than at home.
However, just as every coin has two sides, studying abroad may also confront one with a series of hardships. For one thing, learning a foreign language is far from an easy thing at the beginning for most people. For another, a completely new environment with different customs and habits may also be a barrier to overseas students, especially to the young. An added difficulty lies with finance: it can cost a lot to study abroad. 
From my point of view, the advantages of studying abroad outweigh its disadvantages. But it is a big decision to go abroad to study and one should take into consideration his financial conditions and his ability to adapt to new surrounding. Personally, I choose to go abroad and study if I find it necessary.
11．（投诉信）
Directions: Write a letter of complaint according to the following situation: You bought an air conditioner in Sun Appliance and had it installed the other day, but you found that the fan made too much noise when the machine operated. You demand the store to send a representative to check it up. 
Write your letter in no less than 150 words. Do not sign your own name at the end of the letter; use Li Ming instead. You do not need to write the address. 
June 23, 2007
Dear Sir or Madam,
I'm writing to lodge the complaint about the poor quality of an air conditioner that I purchased from Sun Appliance Company. 
Frankly speaking, Sun Appliance has always been my favorite. On April 4, 2007, I bought the air conditioner (serial number 12345) from one of your chain store located in Lang Fang. The machine operated well at first, but ten days later, there was a fault that bothered me, that is, the fan made so much noise that I could not sleep well at night. Worse still, the cooling system didn't work well and the machine began to leak recently. Its poor quality ruined almost all my previous impression toward your products. 
I strongly suggest that a repairman or a service engineer should be sent to my home without delay. I wonder if you could pinpoint the exact cause of the malfunction as soon as possible. If you can't, I am afraid that I will request for full amount of refund or a new air conditioner. 
I would appreciate all your assistance in this matter. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact me. Look forward to your reply. 
Yours Sincerely,
Li Ming
12．（邀请信）
Directions: Suppose you are the dean of the History Department, Peking University. You want to invite Professor Herb Jason, a well-known scholar of Chinese history, to come to attend an international conference on Chinese history. You'll cover the following points:
The purpose of the invitation
The time and place of the conference
Ask him a favor of presenting a lecture to your students during his stay
Write your letter in no less than 150 words. Do not sign your own name at the end of the letter; use Li Ming instead. You do not need to write the address.
June 23, 2007
Dear Professor Herb Jason,
I am Li Ming, dean of the History Department, Peking University. I am writing to invite you to participate in an international convention that is to be held in Beijing from 22th to 25th, July, 2007.
Since your visit in Beijing last year, all the teachers that attended your lecture have been deeply impressed with your thorough knowledge and profound understanding of the subject. We would be pleased if you could come, as our guest of honor, to the International Conference on Chinese History, If possible, would you please deliver a speech on whatever subject that interests you. Enclosed in this letter is a time schedule for the event. You would, of course, receive our standard honorarium to cover traveling and other expenses. When you arrive in Beijing, I will certainly meet you at the airport.
Please let me know your date of arrival if you can come and tell us when you can make the trip. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact me. Look forward to your reply.
Yours sincerely, 
Li Ming
13．（感谢信）
Directions: Write a letter of thanks according to the following situation. Once you were ill and were hospitalized for a few weeks in the Chaoyang Medical Center, Taiyuan, Shanxi Province. During your stay the entire staff were kind to you. When you came back home, you wrote them a letter of thanks.
Write your letter in no less than 150 words. Do not sign your own name at the end of the letter; use Li Ming instead. You do not need to write the address.
June 23, 2007
Dear Sir/Madam,
I'm writing to extend my heartfelt thanks to all the nurses and doctors in your hospital. 
Last month, while I was on a business trip in Taiyuan, Shanxi province, I suffered from a bad cold and a fever, so I was sent to Ward Rom 201, Chaoyang Medical Center. During my stay at hospital, nurses on duty patiently took my temperature, regularly examined my body, and often fed meals to me. In addition, doctors prescribed me the most effective drugs and gave the best medical advice. Thanks to the constant care from the hospital staff, I recovered quickly. Now that I have returned home, the excellent service of your hospital still impresses me. I believe that as patient, I have received the most professional treatment and the most considerate care. 
Please allow me to convey my sincere greetings toward the doctors and nurses that contribute all their efforts, patience and energy to their patients. Nothing can express my gratitude except my best wishes to them. If you have anything that needs my help, please don't hesitate to contact me.
Yours sincerely,
(一)原因1.A number of factors are accountable for this situation.
A number of factors might contribute to (lead to )(account for) the phenomenon (problem).                                                        2.The answer to this problem involves many factors.                                    3.The phenomenon mainly stems from the fact that...                                      4.The factors that contribute to this situation include...                         5.The change in ...largely results from the fact that...             6.We may blame ...,but the real causes are...　                                     7.Part of the explanations for it is that ...
One of the most common factors (causes .is that ...
Another contributing factor (cause .is ...
Perhaps the primary factor is that … 
But the fundamental cause is that
(二)比较 　　
1.The advantage far outweigh the disadvantages.                    2.The advantages of A are much greater than those of B.                3.A may be preferable to B, but A suffers from the disadvantages that...  4.It is reasonable to maintain that ...but it would be foolish to claim that...                                                         5.For all the disadvantages, it has its compensating advantages.　　6.Like anything else, it has its faults.                                  7.A and B has several points in common.                                         8.A bears some resemblances to B.                                           9.However, the same is not applicable to B.                                      10.A and B differ in several ways.                                           11.Evidently, it has both negative and positive effects.                             12.People used to think ..., but things are different now.                          13.The same is true of B.                                                      14.Wondering as A is, it has its drawbacks.                                        15.It is true that A ..., but the chief faults (obvious defects )are ...
(三)批驳
1.It is true that ..., but one vital point is being left out.　　   2.There is a grain of truth in these statements, but they ignore a more important fact.                                                 3.Some people say ..., but it does not hold water.                         4.Many of us have been under the illusion that...                                5.A close examination would reveal how ridiculous the statement is.　  6.It makes no sense to argue for ...                                          7.Too much stress placed on ...may lead to ...                                       8.Such a statement mainly rests on the assumption that ...                        9.Contrary to what is widely accepted, I maintain that ...
(四)后果
1.It may give rise to a host of problems.                           2.The immediate result it produces is ...                                      3.It will exercise a profound influence upon...                        4.Its consequence can be so great that...
(五)举例 
1.A good case in point is ...                                                   2.As an illustration, we may take ...                                                3.Such examples might be given easily.                                                 4....is often cited as an example.
(六)证明
1.No one can deny the fact that ...                                 2.The idea is hardly supported by facts.                            tunately, none of the available data shows ...                4.Recent studies indicate that ...                                            5.There is sufficient evidence to show that ...                               6.According to statistics proved by ..., it can be seen that ...
(七)开篇
1.Many nations have been faced with the problem of ...          2.Recently the problem has been brought into focus.             3.Recently the phenomenon has become a heated topic.                    4.Recently the issue has aroused great concern among ...                5.Nowadays there is a growing concern over ...                                  6.Never in our history has the idea that ...been so popular.               7.Faced with ..., quite a few people argue that ...                     8.According to a recent survey, ...                                  9.With the rapid development of ..., ...
(八)结尾
1.From what has been discussed above, we can draw the conclusion that ... 2.It is high time that strict measures were taken to stop ...          3.It is necessary that steps should be taken to ...                      4.In conclusion, it is imperative that ...                                      5.There is no easy method, but ...might be of some help.                             6.To solve the above-mentioned problem, we must ...                                         7.In summary, if we continue to ignore the above-mentioned issue, more problems will crop up.                                                            8.With the efforts of all parts concerned, the problem will be solved thoroughly.                                                                       9.We might do more than identify the cause ; it is important to take actions to ...                                                                10.Taking all these into account, we ...                                    11.Whether it is good or not /positive or negative, one thing is certain/clear...

一． 上升增长 
1．…add up to… 增加了eg. The total amount of … added up to 14 billion pounds(14%) in 1994.                                                   2． to jump to / to soar to…… 一跃达到/ 猛增到…
eg. The total working days lost soared to 10 million in 1979.
　　3．…an increase of about…percent as compared with…… 与…相比大约增加了…
　　eg. In August as many as 39 car accidents were reported, indicating an increase of about 79% as compared with the number of January.
　　4．…to experience an increase/incline …有了增长
　　eg. Tobacco consumption is experiencing an incline.
　　二． 下降，减少
　　1．…to sink/drop/reduce to… 减少到…
　　eg. The rate of strikes sank/dropped to the lowest point in 1979.
　　2．…to experience a decrease/decline …有了减少
　　eg. Tobacco consumption is experiencing a decrease. 注意：
　　修饰上升/减少的副词有：
　　rapidly slowly dramatically respectively 表达上升/减少的最后状态的词有：
　　the highest peak the lowest point 10 million 10%
　　三． 起伏
　　1．…to go up and down …起伏不定
　　eg. The strike rate went up and down during the period from 1952 to 1967.
　　2．There be ups and downs …有起有伏
　　eg. Between 1972 and 1979, there were several ups and downs in （某方面）.
　　四． 稳定
　　1．…to remain steady/level/unchanged …保持稳定，几乎不变
　　eg. The rate of …remained steady (fairly level/almost unchanged) during the four years from 1963 to 1967.
　　2．…to level off (vi.)
　　eg. After a steady decline for a whole decade, the …rate shows signs of leveling off.
　　注意：
　　修饰起伏或稳定状态的副词有：
　　almost fairly 可以用于表达起伏，稳定状态的句子中的词组或句型：
　　the general situation was not worsening
　　show indications of improvement
　　it can be predicted that…
　　eg. The rate of …remained steady during the four years from 1963 to 1967,and it can be predicted that the general situation was not worsening.
　　eg. The rate of …remained steady during the four years from 1963 to 1967,showing signs of improvement in …
　　五． 成正比，反比
　　1．…be in direct /inverse ratio to/with 与…成正比/反比
　　eg. Male illustrations are in direct ratio to /with the advancement of grades, while female illustrations are in inverse ratio.
　　六． 占百分之几，几分之几
　　1….to form/comprise/make up/constitute ….percent …占百分之…
　　eg. Women comprise more than 50% of the U.S. population.
　　eg. Females make up only 24% of the illustrations whereas males constitute 76%.
　　2．…to form/comprise/constitute a half/third/fourth of……占…的1/2,1/3,1/4
　　eg. Female illustrions form less than a fourth of the total.
　　3．…account for…percent 占百分之几
　　eg. ……, accounting for approximately 20 percent of…
　　七． 倍数
　　1．A be …times as much/many as B
　　eg. The annual rainfall of Hunan is 5 times as much as that of Sichuan.
　　2．A doubles/is half/triples B A是B的两倍，一半，三倍
　　eg. The annual rainfall of Jidda doubles that of Janta, but is only half the amount of rain Kuwait receives each year.
　　附一 圆盘比例型图表 例： 一个圆盘显示了大学生在food, books, transportations, entertainment, clothes, unknown中的开销，它们各自占的比例依次是60%,3%,5%,10%,10%,12%，要求你描叙这个圆盘图。
　　描述:
　　The above pie chart consists of 6 segments, the largest one representing food, which accounts for 60% of the total. Clothes and entertainment each takes up 10%. 5% goes to transportation and 3% books. All the rest expenses, 12% of all ,is spend on unknown items.
　　总结写作模式：
　　…pie chart consists of…segments, the largest one representing…,which accounts for …of the total.…each takes up….…goes to….All the rest…, …of all,……. .

　　1….(结果)…, owing to (原因) [owing to 为分词结构]
　　2….(结果)…, attributable to（原因） [attributable to为形容词短语]
　　3….(结果) lie in the fact that（原因） [ 同位语从句 ]
　　4….（结果）result from（原因） [句型一般]
　　5. It is precisely because （原因）…that （导致结果）… [强调结构]
　　6. …, as a result, …（导致结果）… [as a result做插入语]
　　7. （原因）be responsible for（结果） [常见句型]
　　8. （原因），which in turn（结果）
　　eg. They give rise to unfair competition, which in turn throws original businesses into a commercial panic.
　　九．采取措施，提出建议
　　1. My suggestion to deal with/solve/relieve the problem are as follows. In the first place,…. Secondly,…. Finally,… [常见句型]
　　2. If we let the situation go as it is, …. By that time, …. 如果让这种情况继续发展下去，那么……。
　　到那个时候，……。[比较好的句型]
　　3. More and more people are realizing the importance of…[进行时态， more and more比many好]
　　4. Great efforts/More measures/Due attention must be taken/paid to do …[ 被动语态，due attention 和be paid to 搭配]
　　5. If……, will there be anything that can make me even happier? 如果（我们怎么怎么做），那将没有比这令我更高兴的了。[条件句，反问句]
　　6. It is important/necessary/urgent/desirable(希望)/advisable(明智) for sb. to do sth. [It is …for …to do…句型]
　　7. enhance the awareness of people that…
　　8. The first nut for us to crack is… 我们首先要解决的是……。 [比The first thing we should do is … 句型 高级的多，精彩的多，生动的多]
　　9. ……as soon as possible [常见句型]
　　10. sth. be of the utmost importance [ be of n. 结构， 比sth. be much important好]
　　十．方式，比较
　　1. (Just) as …, so… 正如… [ 比较句型 ]
　　eg. Just as water is the most important of liquids, so air is the most important of gases.
　　2. in much the same way/manner that… 正如…, 和…一样
　　eg. The Americans spend Christmas Day in much the same way that the Europeans do.
　　十一. 让步
　　1. now that …… 既然…… [让步从句]
　　eg. Now that the decision has been made, we must try our best to carry it out.
　　2. unless…not… [ 让步从句]
　　eg. It is a vicious cycle and unless you consider these social, economic and environmental problems in one context, you are not serious about meeting the challenges. [注意例句中的consider sth. in one context句型:把什么事情放在一起加以综合考虑]
　　十二. 强调句
　　1. only [既是强调句,又是倒装句]
　　eg. Only in this way can you hope to improve the present situation.
　　2. It is …that…
　　eg. It is because he was too careless that he failed in the exam.
　　3. nothing but 只不过；只有…
　　eg. If what we have been striving for is nothing but pleasure-seeking, our nation will be deprived of the right to rise.(这里nothing but 可以去掉,不影响句意,但有了nothing but,就强调了后面的名词)
　　十三. 假设
　　1. Supposing……, it is likely that…. 假设…, 那么很可能… [假设, 虚拟语态]
　　eg. Supposing you wanted to buy a washing machine, it is more than likely you would obtain details regarding performance, price, etc. from an advertisement.
　　十四. 反问
　　1. What else can …? …………还能做什么呢?
　　eg. What else can the poor parents do but obey? 这些可怜的家长除了听从外还能做什么呢?
　　2. How could ……? 怎能….
　　eg. How could I put the English books aside to read pastime books?
　　十五. 比较
　　1. A is to B what X is to Y. A对于B 就象X对于Y
　　eg. Food is to man what oil is to machines.
　　2. ……more…, less…
　　eg. The closer to Christmas, the crazier they get; they become more agitated, less patient.
　　十六. 否定
　　1. 双重否定
　　not uncommon = common 平常的,普通的
　　not unusual = usual 平常的，通常的
　　not inevitable=evitable 可以避免的
　　(尽量把要强调的普通的形容词改成双重否定, 为文章多增加亮点)
　　2. by no means 并没有;当然不
　　3. no longer/more 不再
　　eg. I am no longer that ignorant girl.
　　十七. 程度
　　1. all the more 更加
　　eg. That makes London all the more fascinating, doesn't it?
　　eg. It is all the more surprising therefore that…
　　2. more than 做副词, 意为 "多过…", "比…以上", "比…更"
　　eg. I am more than happy to hear from you.
　　3. more than you can… 远超过你…
　　eg. The situation is very abominable more than you can stand.环境非常恶劣,你无法忍受.
　　十八. 论相互关系
　　1. A have much(nothing) to do with B
　　2. A be closely related to B
　　3.A be directly bound up with B
　　4. a definite link between …and…

　　1. more than…can 简直不,无法,难以…
　　eg. The beauty of the city is more than I can describe.
　　2. beyond description 无法描述
　　eg. The beauty of the city is beyond description.
　　3. There is no point(use) in doing… …是没有任何意义的.
　　4. The first nut for us to crack is … 我们首先要解决的问题是…
　　5. short-sighted policy 眼光短浅的政策
　　6. while ……with one hand, ……with the other. 当(我们)一方面…., 而另一方面…
　　eg. While money is eagerly collected in vast sums with one hand, it is paid out in increasingly vaster sums with the other.
　　7. far from 远离,远远不,非但不
　　eg. Far from taking exception(take exception:反对), no one is even mildly surprised.
　　8. be bound to
　　eg. Any discussion of this topic is bound to question the aims of education.
　　9. (or) vice-versa 反之亦然
　　10. sth. be measured in terms of … sth.用…来衡量
　　eg. "success" is measured in terms of freedom from insecurity.
　　11…. (现象)…, upon which views vary from person to person.
　　12.A be more essential to B. 对B来说, A是尤为关键重要的.
　　13.Distinguished scientific accomplishment is a matter of opportunity and of continuous and concentrated effort over long years. (很优美的句子,值得借鉴)
　　14. from the …point of view 从…角度来看
　　eg. From the health point of view 从健康的角度来看
　　15. ……must be rooted out in order to …. …必须根除以…
　　eg. Moral corruption must be rooted out in order to preserve the integrity of the state. 为了使国家健康发展,必须根除腐败.
　　16. …represent only the tip of the iceberg. …….只是冰山一角
　　eg. The most famous stars represent only the tip of the iceberg.
　　17. The rapid progress in science and technology has given a powerful shove-ahead to the productive forces of the world and the economic and social development of humanity. 科技的快速发展带给世界生产力和人类经济和社会的发展一个强劲的推动力(2001年****的七.一讲话).
　　18. ….stand tall and aim far, broaden one's vision and give full play to one's intelligence and wisdom on the broad arena of reform, opening-up and the modernization drive. 站的高看的远,开扩自己的视野,在改革开放和现代化建设的大舞台上充分发挥个人才智(2001年****的七.一讲话). (句中很多的词组都是作文中可以运用到的,比如改革开放:reform (and) opening-up等)
　　19….demonstrate the value of one's life and work hard to achieve feats that will live up to the expectations of the people and the times. 证实自己的人生价值,努力的工作取得成就,而不辜负人民和时代的期望. (出处同上)
　　20.When asked about…, the overwhelming majority of people say that ….But other people think of … as…. / But I think quite differently. (对报刊上某一问题(已有不同的人发表了不同的观点)发表自己的观点)
　　21.It is generally believed/accepted/held that… 通常认为….
　　22 It is no denying the fact that…. 无可否认…
　　23……… , so…that…
　　eg. The river is very clear, so clear that you can see the fishes coming and going in it.
　　eg. Everything is covered with a thick layer of dust, so poisonous that all the grass, trees, vegetables and flowers gradually die.
　　二十. 辨证分析
　　1. Just as the popular saying goes, "Every coin has two sides". From one side,…. from the other side,…. 正如一个谚语所说的, "每个硬币都有两面(事物都是一分为二的)".从一方面看……… 从另一方面来看………
　　二十一. 比喻,拟人
　　1. They are taken prisoners by fame and their achievements turn into a bar to further advance.
　　2. True and deep love of life is the spring from which flow courage, confidence and power.

　　1. admittedly 应当承认:
　　Admittedly, a few governments have taken timid measures.
　　2. simply 简而言之:
　　The answer is simply money.
　　3. discreetly 小心谨慎地:
　　point out discreetly that…
　　4. conceivably 可以想象地:
　　Smoking may, conceivably, be harmful.
　　5. surely 肯定地:
　　This is surely the most short-sighted policy you could imagine.
　　6. eagerly 渴望地
　　7. increasingly 不断增长地
　　While money is eagerly collected in vast sums with one hand, it is paid out in increasingly vaster sums with the other.
　　8. honestly: 诚实地:
　　the government is honestly concerned about the welfare of its people政府真心实意地关心它的人民的福利
　　9. certainly: 当然地
As individuals we are certainly weak, but if …作为个人,我们当然是弱小的,但是如果…
务必熟记的考研英语作文重点句式
1. It must be pointed out that it is one of our basic State policies to control population growth while raising the quality of the population. 
2. It is (has been) estimated that the world's population could reach 6 billion by the end of the century. 
3. It must be kept in mind that there is no secret of success but hard work. 
4. It can be seen from this that there is no difficulty in the world we can overcome. 
5. As is known man is the product of labour. 
6. It is a common saying that man who has a settled purpose will surely succeed. 
7. It is clear that the enemy has no desire for peace. 
8. It is hard to imagine how Edison managed to work twenty hours each day. 
9. It's hard to say whether the plan is practicable. 
10. There is no doubt that you will be helped by others if you have any difficulties. 
11. It seems certain that they have made a series of experiments. 
12. It is said that bats have been using radar for millions of years. 
13. To tell the truth , many mistakes we made could have been avoided. 
14. As we know, it was not until recently that the problem was solved. 
15. It must be admitted that you haven't done what you promised to do. 
16. In my opinion, this computer is different from that one you saw. 
17. It is certain that we have a long way to go. 
18. All this shows that nothing can prevent us from reaching our aims. 
19. As far as we know, it took him more than a year to write the book. 
20. It has been proved that every substance, no matter what it is, is made up of atoms. 
21. It has been decided that we are going to build a railway whose base must be completed within this year. 
22. It is obvious (evident) that the success of the innovation depends on our concerted efforts. 
23. To be frank, whether you like it or not, you have no other choice. 
24. It is natural that one may have trouble expressing complicated ideas in simple English. 
25. What is more important, the agreement they have negotiated is being carried out. 
26. We will be successful as long as we persevere. 
27. Frankly speaking, what you call the truth may not apply to things happening here. 
28. It is true that we must redouble our efforts; otherwise we cannot catch up with the developed countries. 
29. I take it for granted that they will support this idea. I regard it as natural that they will agree to this idea. 
30. In a certain sense, a successful scientist is a person who is never satisfied with what he has achieved. 
31. The oceans do not so much divide the world as unite it. 
32. There is no denying the fact that the new management method has greatly increased the production. 
33. There is no denying the fact that the new management method has greatly increased the production. 
34. Upon hearing the unexpected news, he was so surprised that he couldn't utter a word. 
35. As the saying goes, nothing in the world is difficult for one who sets his mind to it. 
36. Our goal must be attained. Our goal can unquestionably be attained. 
37. Noting can prevent us from realizing the four modernizations. 
38. Now in China, more and more families can afford to buy high-grade goods, such as washing machines, TV sets, videocorders. 
39. No matter how difficult English may be, you should do your best to learn it. 
40. It can be said that without knowledge of science and technology, it is impossible to build socialist modernizations
考研英语必背184个句式
　　1. According to a recent survey, four million people die each year from diseases linked to smoking.
　　依照最近的一项调查，每年有4，000，000人死于与吸烟有关的疾病。       2. The latest surveys show that quite a few children have unpleasant associations with homework.
　　最近的调查显示相当多的孩子对家庭作业没什么好感。                 3. No invention has received more praise and abuse than Internet.
　　没有一项发明像互联网一样同时受到如此多的赞扬和批评              4. People seem to fail to take into account the fact that education does not end with graduation.
　　人们似乎忽视了教育不应该随着毕业而结束这一事实。                 5. An increasing number of people are beginning to realize that education is not complete with graduation.
　　越来越多的人开始意识到教育不能随着毕业而结束。                   6. When it comes to education, the majority of people believe that education is a lifetime study.
　　说到教育，大部分人认为其是一个终生的学习。                        7. Many experts point out that physical exercise contributes directly to a persons physical fitness.许多专家指出体育锻炼直接有助于身体健康。 8. Proper measures must be taken to limit the number of foreign tourists and the great efforts should be made to protect local environment and history from the harmful effects of international tourism.应该采取适当的措施限制外国旅游者的数量，努力保护当地环境和历史不受国际旅游业的不利影响。                                                           9. An increasing number of experts believe that migrants will exert positive effects on construction of city. However, this opinion is now being questioned by more and more city residents, who complain that the migrants have brought many serious problems like crime and prostitution.
越来越多的专家相信移民对城市的建设起到积极作用。然而，越来越多的城市居民却怀疑这种说法，他们抱怨民工给城市带来了许多严重的问题，像犯罪和卖淫。                                                               10. Many city residents complain that it is so few buses in their city that they have to spend much more time waiting for a bus, which is usually crowded with a large number of passengers.许多市民抱怨城市的公交车太少，以至于他们要花很长时间等一辆公交车，而车上可能已满载乘客。           11. There is no denying the fact that air pollution is an extremely serious problem: the city authorities should take strong measures to deal with it.无可否认，空气污染是一个极其严重的问题：城市当局应该采取有力措施来解决它。                                                             12. An investigation shows that female workers tend to have a favorable attitude toward retirement.一项调查显示妇女欢迎退休。13. A proper part-time job does not occupy students too much time. In fact, it is unhealthy for them to spend all of time on their study. As an old saying goes: All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
　　一份适当的业余工作并不会占用学生太多的时间，事实上，把全部的时间都用到学习上并不健康，正如那句老话：只工作，不玩耍，聪明的孩子会变傻。14. Any government, which is blind to this point, may pay a heavy price.任何政府忽视这一点都将付出巨大的代价。                             15.Nowadays, many students always go into raptures at the mere mention of the coming life of high school or college they will begin. Unfortunately, for most young people, it is not pleasant experience on their first day on campus.当前，一提到即将开始的学校生活，许多学生都会兴高采烈。然而，对多数年轻人来说，校园刚开始的日子并不是什么愉快的经历。                                                                                                                     16. In view of the seriousness of this problem, effective measures should be taken before things get worse.
　　考虑到问题的严重性，在事态进一步恶化之前，必须采取有效的措施。                            17. The majority of students believe that part-time job will provide them with more opportunities to develop their interpersonal skills, which may put them in a favorable position in the future job markets.大部分学生相信业余工作会使他们有更多机会发展人际交往能力，而这对他们未来找工作是非常有好处的。                                                                         18. It is indisputable that there are millions of people who still have a miserable life and have to face the dangers of starvation and exposure.无可争辩，现在有成千上万的人仍过着挨饿受冻的痛苦生活。                                    19. Although this view is wildly held, this is little evidence that education can be obtained at any age and at any place.尽管这一观点被广泛接受，很少有证据表明教育能够在任何地点、任何年龄进行。                               20. No one can deny the fact that a persons education is the most important aspect of his life.没有人能否认：教育是人生最重要的一方面。　                            21. People equate success in life with the ability of operating computer.人们把会使用计算机与人生成功相提并论。                                                    22. In the last decades, advances in medical technology have made it possible for people to live longer than in the past.在过去的几十年，先进的医疗技术已经使得人们比过去活的时间更长成为可能。                               23. In fact, we have to admit the fact that the quality of life is as important as life itself.事实上，我们必须承认生命的质量和生命本身一样重要。                                                                               24. We should spare no effort to beautify our environment.
　　我们应该不遗余力地美化我们的环境。                                                      25. People believe that computer skills will enhance their job opportunities or promotion opportunities.人们相信拥有计算机技术可以获得更多工作或提升的机会。                                                             26. The information Ive collected over last few years leads me to believe that this knowledge may be less useful than most people think.
　　从这几年我搜集的信息来看，这些知识并没有人们想象的那么有用。                           27. Now, it is generally accepted that no college or university can educate its students by the time they graduation.
　　现在，人们普遍认为没有凰 笱 芄辉诒弦凳焙蚪谈 械闹                                  28. This is a matter of life and death--a matter no country can afford to ignore.这是一个关系到生死的问题，任何国家都不能忽视。                                   29. For my part, I agree with the latter opinion for the following reasons:我同意后者，有如下理由：                                                                  30. Before giving my opinion, I think it is important to look at the arguments on both sides.在给出我的观点之前，我想看看双方的观点是重要的。                                                                                          31. This view is now being questioned by more and more people.
　　这一观点正受到越来越多人的质疑。                                                    32. Although many people claim that, along with the rapidly economic development, the number of people who use bicycle are decreasing and bicycle is bound to die out. The information Ive collected over the recent years leads me to believe that bicycle will continue to play extremely important roles in modern society.尽管许多人认为随着经济的高速发展，用自行车的人数会减少，自行车可能会消亡， 然而，这几年我收集的一些信息让我相信自行车仍然会继续在现代社会发挥极其重要的作用。                                                  33. Environmental experts point out that increasing pollution not only causes serious problems such as global warming but also could threaten to end human life on our planet.环境学家指出：持续增加的污染不仅会导致像全球变暖这样严重的问题，而且还将威胁到人类在这个星球的生存。                          34. In view of such serious situation, environmental tools of transportation like bicycle are more important than any time before.
考虑到这些严重的状况，我们比以往任何时候更需要像自行车这样的环保型交通工具。                                                                                    35. Using bicycle contributes greatly to peoples physical fitness as well as easing traffic jams.
　　使用自行车有助于人们的身体健康，并极大地缓解了交通阻塞。                            36. Despite many obvious advantages of bicycle, it is not without its problem.尽管自行车有许多明显的优点，但是它也存在它的问题。                            37. Bicycle cant be compared with other means of transportation like car and train for speed and comfort.
　　在速度和舒适度方面，自行车是无法和汽车、火车这样的交通工具相比的。38. From what has been discussed above, we may safely draw the conclusion that advantages of bicycle far outweigh its disadvantages and it will still play essential roles in modern society.通过以上讨论，我们可以得出结论：自行车的优点远大于缺点，并且在现代社会它仍将发挥重要作用。                                                                39. There is a general discussion these days over education in many colleges and institutes. One of the questions under debate is whether education is a lifetime study.当前在高校和研究机构对教育存在着大量争论，其中一个问题就是教育是否是个终身学习的过程。                                         40. This issue has caused wide public concern.这个问题已经引起了广泛关注。                                                                                   41. It must be noted that learning must be done by a person himself.
　　必须指出学习只能靠自己                                                             42. A large number of people tend to live under the illusion that they had completed their education when they finished their schooling. Obviously, they seem to fail to take into account the basic fact that a persons education is a most important aspect of his life.
　　许多人存在这样的误解，认为离开学校就意味着结束了他们的教育。显然，他们忽视了教育是人生重要部分这一基本事实。43. As for me, Im in favor of the opinion that education is not complete with graduation, for the following reasons:就我而言，我同意教育不应该随着毕业而结束的观点，有以下原因：                                                                                44. It is commonly accepted that no college or university can educate its students by the time they graduate.人们普遍认为高校是不可能在毕业的时候教会他们的学生所有知识的。                                                         45. Even the best possible graduate needs to continue learning before she or he becomes an educated person.即使最优秀的毕业生，要想成为一个博学的人也要不断地学习。                                                              46. It is commonly thought that our society had dramatically changed by modern science and technology, and human had made extraordinary progress in knowledge and technology over the recent decades.人们普遍认为我们的现代科技使我们的社会发生了巨大的变化，近几十年人类在科技方面取得了惊人的进步。                                                           47. Now people in growing numbers are beginning to believe that learning new skills and knowledge contributes directly to enhancing their job opportunities or promotion opportunities.现在越来越多的人开始相信学习新的技术和知识能直接帮助他们获得工作就会或提升的机会。                                   48. An investigation shows that many older people express a strong desire to continue studying in university or college.
　　一项调查显示许多老人都有到大学继续学习的愿望。
49. For the majority of people, reading or learning a new skill has become the focus of their lives and the source of their happiness and contentment after their retirement.对大多数人来讲，退休以后，阅读或学习一项新技术已成为他们生活的中心和快乐的来源。                                                 50. For people who want to adopt a healthy and meaningful life style, it is important to find time to learn certain new knowledge. Just as an old saying goes: it is never too late to learn.
　　对于那些想过上健康而有意义的生活的人们来说，找时间学习一些新知识是很重要的，正如那句老话：活到老，学到老。                                                 51. There is a general debate on the campus today over the phenomenon of college or high school students doing a part-time job.
    对于大学或高中生打工这一现象，校园里进行着广泛的争论。                                         52. By taking a major-related part-job, students can not only improve their academic studies, but gain much experience, experience they will never be able to get from the textbooks.通过做一份和专业相关的工作，学生不仅能够提高他们的专业能力，而且能获得从课本上得不到的经验。                                                             53. Although people's lives have been dramatically changed over the last decades, it must be admitted that, shortage of funds is still the one of the biggest questions that students nowadays have to face because that tuition fees and prices of books are soaring by the day
　　近几十年，尽管人们的生活有了惊人的改变，但必须承认，由于学费和书费日益飞涨，资金短缺仍然是学生们面临的最大问题之一。                                      54. Consequently, the extra money obtained from part-time job will strongly support students to continue to their study life.
　　因此，业余工作挣来的钱将强有力地支持学生们继续他们的求学生活。                      55. From what has been discussed above, we may safely draw a conclusion that part-time job can produce a far-reaching impact on students and they should be encouraged to take part-time job, which will benefit students and their family, even the society as a whole.
通过上面的讨论，我们不难得出结论：业余工作对学生们会产生深远的影响，我们应鼓励学生从事业余工作，这将有利于学生和他们的家庭，甚至整个社会。56. These days, people in growing numbers are beginning to complain that work is more stressful and less leisurely than in past. Many experts point out that, along with the development of modern society, it is an inevitable result and there is no way to avoid it.
　　现在，越来越多的人们开始抱怨工作比以前更有压力。许多专家指出这是现代社会发展必然的结果，无法避免。                                                     57. It is widely acknowledged that computer and other machines have become an indispensable part of our society, which make our life and work more comfortable and less laborious.人们普遍认为计算机和其他机器已经成为我们社会必不可少的一部分。 它们使我们的生活更舒适，减少了大量劳动。                      58. At the same time, along with the benefits of such machines, employees must study knowledge involved in such machines so that they are able to control them.同时，随着这些机器带给我们的好处，员工们也必须要学习与之相关的知识以便使用它们。                                                                   59. No one can deny the basic fact that it is impossible for average workers to master those high-technology skills easily.没有人能否认这一基本事实：对于一般工人来讲，轻松掌握这些技术是不可能的。                                 60. In the second place, there seem to be too many people without job and not enough job position.
　　第二方面，失业的人似乎太多而又没有足够的工作岗位。                                   61. Millions of people have to spend more time and energy on studying new skills and technology so that they can keep a favorable position in job market.成千上万的人们不得不花费更多的精力和时间学习新的技术和知识，使得他们在就业市场能保持优势。                                                        62. According to a recent survey, a growing number of people express a strong desire to take another job or spend more time on their job in order to get more money to support their family.根据最近的一项调查，越来越多的人表达了想从事另外的工作或加班以赚取更多的钱来补贴家用的强烈愿望                                                                       63. From what has been discussed above, I am fully convinced that the leisure life-style is undergoing a decline with the progress of modern society, it is not necessary a bad thing.通过以上讨论，我完全相信，随着现代社会的进步，幽闲的生活方式正在消失并不是件坏事。                                64. The problem of international tourism has caused wide public concern over the recent years.近些年，国际旅游的问题引起了广泛关注。                              65. Many people believe that international tourism produce positive effects on economic growth and local government should be encouraged to promote international tourism.
许多人认为国际旅游对经济发展有积极作用，应鼓励地方政府发展国际旅游。66. But what these people fail to see is that international tourism may bring about a disastrous impact on our environment and local history.
  但是这些人忽视了国际旅游可能会给当地环境和历史造成的灾难性的影响。67. As for me, Im firmly convinced that the number of foreign tourists should be limited, for the following reasons:
        就我而言，我坚定地认为国外旅游者的数量应得到限制，理由如下：68. In addition, in order to attract tourists, a lot of artificial facilities have been built, which have certain unfavorable effects on the environment.
        另外，为了吸引旅游者，大量人工设施被修建，这对环境是不利的。69. For lack of distinct culture, some places will not attract tourists any more. Consequently, the fast rise in number of foreign tourists may eventually lead to the decline of local tourism.由于缺乏独特的文化，一些地方不再吸引旅游者。因此，国外旅游者数量的快速增加可能最终会导致当地旅游业的衰败。                                                  70. There is a growing tendency for parents to ask their children to accept extra educational programs over the recent years.
　　近些年，父母要求他们的孩子接受额外的教育呈增长的势头。           71. This phenomenon has caused wide public concern in many places of world.这一现象在全世界许多地方已引起了广泛关注。                          72. Many parents believe that additional educational activities enjoy obvious advantage. By extra studies, they maintain, their children are able to obtain many kinds of practical skills and useful knowledge, which will put them in a beneficial position in the future job markets when they grow up.
　　许多家长相信额外的教育活动有许多优点，通过学习，他们的孩子可以获得很多实践技能和有用的知识，当他们长大后，这些对他们就业是大有好处的。73. In the first place, extra studies bring about unhealthy impacts on physical growth of children. Educational experts point out that, it is equally important to take some sport activities instead of extra studies when children have spent the whole day in a boring classroom.首先，额外的学习对孩子们的身体发育是不利的。教育专家指出，孩子们在枯燥的教室里呆了一整天后，从事一些体育活动，而不是额外的学习，是非常重要的。     74. Children are undergoing fast physical development; lack of physical exercise may produce disastrous influence on their later life.孩子们正处于身体快速发育时期，缺乏体育锻炼可能会对他们未来的生活造成严重的影响。                                                              75. In the second place, from psychological aspect, the majority of children seem to tend to have an unfavorable attitude toward additional educational activities.第二，从心理上讲，大部分孩子似乎对额外的学习没有什么好感。                                                                           76. It is hard to imagine a student focusing their energy on textbook while other children are playing.
　　当别的孩子在玩耍的时候，很难想象一个学生能集中精力在课本上。                       77. Moreover, children will have less time to play and communicate with their peers due to extra studies, consequently, it is difficult to develop and cultivate their character and interpersonal skills. They may become more solitary and even suffer from certain mental illness.
　　而且，由于要额外地学习，孩子们没有多少时间和同龄的孩子玩耍和交流，很难培养他们的个性和交际能力。他们可能变得孤僻甚至产生某些心理疾病。78. From what has been discussed above, we may safely draw the conclusion that, although extra studies indeed enjoy many obvious advantages, its disadvantages shouldnt be ignored and far outweigh its advantages. It is absurd to force children to take extra studies after school.通过以上讨论，我们可以得出结论：尽管额外学习的确有很多优点，但它的缺点不可忽视，且远大于它的优点。因此，放学后强迫孩子额外学习是不明智的。7                         9. Any parents should place considerable emphasis on their children to keep the balance between play and study. As an old saying goes: All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.任何家长都应非常重视保持孩子在学习与玩耍的平衡，正如那句老话：只工作，不玩耍，聪明的孩子会变傻。                          80. There is a growing tendency for parent these days to stay at home to look after their children instead of returning to work earlier.现在，父亲或母亲留在家里照顾他们的孩子而不愿过早返回工作岗位正成为增加的趋势。
                                                                                82. However, this idea is now being questioned by more and more experts, who point out that it is unhealthy for children who always stay with their parents at home.然而，这一想法正遭受越来越多的专家的质疑，他们指出，孩子总是呆在家里，和父母在一起，是不健康的。                                               83. Although parent would be able to devote much more time and energy to their children, it must be admitted that, parent has less experience and knowledge about how to educate and supervise children, when compared with professional teachers working in kindergartens or nursery schools.尽管父母能在他们孩子身上投入更多时间和精力，但是必须承认，与工作在幼儿园的专职教师相比，他们在如何管理教育孩子方面缺乏知识和经验                       84. From what has been discussed above, we may safely draw a conclusion that, although the parents desire to look after children by themselves is understandable, its disadvantages far outweigh the advantages.通过以上讨论，我们可以得出如下结论：尽管家长想亲自照看孩子的愿望是可以理解的，但是这样做的缺点远大于优点。                                                        85. Parents should be encouraged to send their children to nursery schools, which will bring about profound impacts on children and families, and even the society as a whole.应该鼓励父母将他们的孩子送到幼儿园，这将对孩子，家庭，甚至整个社会产生深远的影响。                                            86. Many leaders of government always go into raptures at the mere mention of artistic and cultural projects. They are forever talking about the nice parks, the smart sculptures in central city and the art galleries with various valuable rarities. Nothing, they maintain, is more essential than such projects in the economic growth.
　　只要一提起艺术和文化项目，一些政府领导就会兴奋不已，他们滔滔不绝地说着美丽的公园，城市中心漂亮的雕塑，还有满是稀世珍宝的艺术展览馆。他们认为在经济发展中，没有什么比这些艺术项目更重要了。                                 87. But is it really the case? The information Ive collected over last few years leads me to believe that artistic and cultural projects may be less useful than many governments think. In fact, basic infrastructure projects are playing extremely important role and should be given priority.
　　这是真的吗？这些年我收集的信息让我相信这些文化、艺术项目并没有许多政府想象的那么重要。事实上，基础设施建设非常重要，应该放在首位。                     88. Those who are in favor of artistic and cultural projects advocate that cultural environment will attract more tourists, which will bring huge profits to local residents. Some people even equate the build of such projects with the improving of economic construction.那些赞成建设文化艺术项目的人认为文化环境会吸引更多的游客，这将给当地居民带来巨大的利益。一些人甚至把建设文化艺术项目与发展经济建设等同起来。89.Unfortunately, there is very few evidence that big companies are willing to invest a huge sums of money in a place without sufficient basic projects, such as supplies of electricity and water.然而，很少有证据表明大公司愿意把巨额的资金投到一个连水电这些基础设施都不完善的地方去90. From what has been discussed above, it would be reasonable to believe that basic projects play far more important role than artistic and cultural projects in peoples life and economic growth.通过以上讨论，我们有理由相信在人们的生活和经济发展方面，基础建设比艺术文化项目发挥更大的作用。91. Those urban planners who are blind to this point will pay a heavy price, which they cannot afford it.
　　那些城市的规划者们如果忽视这一点，将会付出他们无法承受的代价92. There is a growing tendency these days for many people who live in rural areas to come into and work in city. This problem has caused wide public concern in most cities all over the world.农民进城打工正成为增长的趋势，这一问题在世界上大部分城市已引起普遍关注。93. An investigation shows that many emigrants think that working at city provide them with not only a higher salary but also the opportunity of learning new skills.一项调查显示许多民工认为在城市打工不仅有较高的收入，而且能学到一些新技术。94. It must be noted that improvement in agriculture seems to not be able to catch up with the increase in population of rural areas and there are millions of peasants who still live a miserable life and have to face the dangers of exposure and starvation必须指出，农业的发展似乎赶不上农村人口的增加，并且仍有成千上万的农民过着缺衣挨饿的贫寒生活。       95. Although rural emigrants contribute greatly to the economic growth of the cities, they may inevitably bring about many negative impacts.尽管民工对城市的经济发展做出了巨大贡献，然而他们也不可避免的带来了一些负面影响。                                                                              96. Many sociologists point out that rural emigrants are putting pressure on population control and social order; that they are threatening to take already scarce city jobs; and that they have worsened traffic and public health problems.许多社会学家指出民工正给人口控制和社会治安带来压力。他们正在威胁着本已萧条的工作市场，他们恶化了交通和公共卫生状况。                               97. It is suggested that governments ought to make efforts to reduce the increasing gap between cities and countryside. They ought to set aside an appropriate fund for improvement of the standard of peasants lives. They ought to invite some experts in agriculture to share their experiences, information and knowledge with peasants, which will contribute directly to the economic growth of rural areas.建议政府应该努力减少正在拉大的城乡差距。应该划拨适当的资金提高农民的生活水平；应该邀请农业专家向农民介绍他们的经验，知识和信息，这些将有助于发展农村经济。                                                                                98. In conclusion, we must take into account this problem rationally and place more emphases on peasants lives. Any government that is blind to this point will pay a heavy price.总之，我们应理智考虑这一问题，重视农民的生活。任何政府忽视这一点都将付出巨大的代价。                                       99. Although many experts from universities and institutes consistently maintain that it is an inevitable part of an independent life, parents in growing numbers are starting to realize that people, including teachers and experts in education, should pay considerable attention to this problem.尽管来自高校和研究院的许多专家坚持认为这是独立生活不可避免的一部分，然而越来越多的家长开始意识到包括教师和教育专家在内的人们应该认真对待这一问题。                                                                100. As for me, it is essential to know, at first, what kind of problems young students possible would encounter on campus.
　　我认为，首先应看看学生们在校园可能遇到哪些问题。                                  121. on the one hand, it is indisputable that boarding schools are exerting a growing important effect, especially in last few years.一方面，寄宿学校正在发挥越来越重要的作用，尤其是最近几年，这是无可争辩的                                                                                      122. students attend a boarding school would cultivate their independence as apart from their parents.离开父母上寄宿学校的学生将会培养他们的独立性　                                                                           123. whats more, living in school can save them a great deal of time on the way between home and school everyday, so they would be able to concentrate more time and energy on their academic work.而且，生活在学校里能节省大量每天往返于学校和家的路上的时间，这会使他们有更多的时间和精力放在学习上。
124. on the other hand, the contribution of day schools cant be ignored.另一方面，日制学校的贡献是不能忽视的。
125. due to high tuition fee, most of ordinary families cannot afford to send their children to boarding schools.因为较高的学费，大部分普通家庭支付不起他们的孩子上寄宿学校的费用。
126. since it is unnecessary to consider students routinelife, day school can lay stress on teaching instead of other aspects, such as management of dormitory and cafeteria.由于无需考虑学生的日常生活，日制学校可以将重点放在教学上而不是放在像宿舍和食堂管理这些方面。                                   127. furthermore, students living in their own home would have access to a comfortable life and have more opportunities to communicate with their parents, which have beneficial impact on development of their personal character.而且，学生生活在自己家中，有舒适的生活，并有更多机会和父母交流，这对他们个性的培养是有利的。
128. from what has been discussed above, we may safely draw the conclusion that both of day schools and boarding schools are important to train young students for our society.通过以上讨论，我们可以得出结论，寄宿学校和日制学校对我们社会培养年轻学生都是重要的。
129. there is much discussion over science and technology. one of the questions under debate is whether traditional technology and methods are bound to die out when a country begins to develop modern science and technology.关于科学技术存在许多争论，其中一个问题是当国家发展现代科学技术时，传统的技术方法是否可能会消亡？
130. as for me, the declining of traditional technology and methods is not a bad thing; it is the natural result of progress of society.我认为，传统技术方法的消亡不一定是坏事，这是社会进步的自然结果。                            131. in the first place, some aspects of the traditional technology and methods are harmful and hampering the development of modern technology science.首先，传统技术方法有些部分是有害的，并且会阻碍现代科技的发展。          132. although modern science and technology have proved that such methods are absurd, there are still millions of people use such methods in many remote places nowadays.尽管现代科学技术已经证明了这些方法是愚昧的，然而在许多偏僻的地方，仍有成千上万的人们在使用这些方法。                             133. in the second place, many values of traditional technology are out of date and should be replaced by modern science.第二点，许多传统技术方法已经过时，应被现代科技所取代。                                                     134. although many people tend to live under the illusion that traditional technology and methods are still playing extremely important role in peoples life, an increasingevidences show that it is less useful than many people think.尽管许多人保持着传统观念，认为传统技术方法在人们生活中仍发挥着重要作用，但是越来越多的证据显示它并没有人们想象的有用。135. from what has been discussed above, i firmly believe that time will prove that traditional technology and methods would die out with the development of modern science and technology. the maintenance of the traditionaltechnology and methods is futile.通过以上讨论，我坚定地相信时间会证明传统技术方法将会随着现代技术的发展而消亡，坚持传统技术方法是徒劳的。                                                                     136. at the time when technology means ever more harmful carbon in the air we breathe, we need these forests now more than ever.当技术的发展意味着我们会吸入更多有害气体时，我们比任何时候更需要森林。                         137. nothing is more important than to receive education.没有比接受教育更重要的事。                                                                      
139. there is no denying that the qualities of our living have gone from bad to worse.无可否认，我们的生活品质已经每况愈下。                                 140. it is universally acknowledged that trees are indispensable to us.全世界都知道树木对我们是不可或缺的。                                               141. there is no doubt that our educational system leaves something to be desired.毫无疑问，我们的教育制度令人不满意。                                   142. an advantage of using the solar energy is that it wont create any pollution.使用太阳能的优点是它不会产生任何污染。                                143. the reason why we have to grow trees is that they can supply fresh air for us.我们必须种树的原因是它们能供应我们新鲜的空气。                         144. so precious is time that we cant afford to waste it.时间是如此珍贵，我们不能浪费它。                                                                 145. rich as our country is, the qualities of our living are by no means satisfactory.虽然我们的国家很富有，但是我们的生活质量却令人很不满意。146. the harder you work, the more progress you make.你越努力，你越进步。                                                                               147. the more books we read, the more learned we become.我们书读得越多，我们越有学问。                                                               148. to average people, they often tend to live under the illusion that english often means a good opportunity for ones career, is this really the case?对于一般人来说，他们常常以为掌握英语就意味着一份好的工作，然而这是真的吗？                                                                       149. by taking exercise, we can always stay healthy.通过体育锻炼，我们能够始终保持健康。                                                                             150. listening to music enables us to feel relaxed.听音乐能使我们放松。151. on no account can we ignore the value of knowledge.我们绝对不能忽视知识的价值。                                                                             152. it is time the authorities concerned took proper steps to solve the traffic problems.该是有关当局采取适当的措施来解决交通问题的时候了。      153. those who violate traffic regulations should be punished.违反交通规则的人应该受到处罚。                                                               154. there is no one but longs to go to college人们都希望上大学。                           155. since the examination is around the corner, i am compelled to give up doing sports.既然考试迫在眉睫，我不得不放弃作运动。                               156. it is conceivable that knowledge plays an important role in our life.可想而知，知识在我们的一生中扮演一个重要的角色。                                  157. summer is sultry. thats the reason why i dont like it.夏天很闷热，这就是我不喜欢它的原因。                                                              158. the progress of the society is based on harmony.社会的进步是以和谐为基础的。                                                                          159. we should bring home to people the value of working hard.我们应该让人们知道努力的价值。                                                              160. taking exercise is closely related to health.作运动与健康息息相关。                                                                                 161. we should get into the habit of keeping good hours.我们应该养成早睡早起的习惯。                                                                  162. the condition of our traffic leaves much to be desired.我们的交通状况令人不满意。                                                                          163. smoking has a great influence on our health.抽烟对我们的健康有很大的影响。                                                                        164. reading does good to our mind.读书对心灵有益。                          165. overwork does harm to health工作过度对健康有害。                                                     166. pollution poses a great threat to our existence.污染对我们的生存造成巨大威胁。                                                                      167. we should do our best to achieve our goal in life.我们应尽全力去达成我们的人生目标。                                                                168. weather a large family is a good thing or not is a very popular topic, which is often talked about not only by city residents but by farmers as well.家庭人口多好还是家庭人口少好是一个非常通俗的主题，不仅是城里人，而且农民都经常讨论这个问题。                                                        169. as is known to all, fake and inferior commodities harm the interests of consumers.众所周知，假冒伪劣商品损害了消费者的利益                                170. today an increasing number of people have realized that law education is of great importance. in order to keep law and order, every one of us is supposed to get a law education.现在，愈来愈多的人认识到法制教育的重要性。为了维护社会治安 ，我们每人都应该接受法制教育。                              171. from what i have mentioned above, we can see clearly that violence on tv has great influence on youngsters behavior.从上面我所提到的，我们可以清楚地看到，电视暴力对青少年的影响是极其深远的。                             172. there are two reasons for the improvement in peoples living conditions. in the first place, we have been carrying out the reform and opening-up policy. secondly, there has been a rapid expansion of our national economy. furthermore, the birth rate has been put under control.人民生活状况的改善原因有两点。首先，我们一直在贯彻执行改革开放政策。其次，国民经济正在迅速发展，而且出生率已经得到控制。                                    173. my suggestions to deal with the problem are as follows. to begin with, it is urgent to create nature reserves. secondly, certain rare wild animals that are going to be extinct should be collected, fed and reproduced artificially. finally, those who hunter them must be punished severely.我对解决这个问题的建议如下：首先，迫在眉睫的是建立自然保护区。其次，有些濒临灭绝的珍稀野生动物应该收捕、人工喂养并繁殖。最后，对于捕猎珍稀野生动物的人必须严惩。                                                         174. people differ in their attitudes towards failure. faced with it, some of them can stand up to it, draw useful lessons from it and try hard to fulfill what they are determined to do. others, however, lose heart and give in.人们对失败持有不同的态度。面对失败，有人能够经得起考验，从失败中汲取教训，并努力去完成他们下定决心要做的事情。然而，另一些人却丧失信心并退却了。                                                                 175. it is desirable to build more hospitals, shopping centers, recreation centers, cinemas and other public facilities to meet the growing needs of people.人们希望建立更多的医院、购物中心、娱乐中心、电影院和其他公用设施来满足人们日益增长的需求。                                       176. as a popular saying goes, "everything has two sides." now the public are benefiting more and more from scientific and technological inventions. on the other hand, the progress of science and technology is bringing us a lot of trouble. people in many countries are suffering from public hazards.常言道：事情总是一分为二的。如今人们从科技发明中得到越来越多的好处。另一方面，科技进步也给我们带来了许多麻烦。现在许多国家 的人民饱受公害之苦。                                                                      177. lets take cars for example. they not only pollute the air in cities, but make them crowded. furthermore, they are responsible for a lot of traffic accidents. the noise made by cars disturbs the residents living on both sides of streets all day and night.就拿汽车为例。汽车不仅污染城市空气，而且使城市拥挤不堪。此外，汽车造成许多交通事故。汽车所产生的噪音使居住在街道两旁的居民日夜不得安宁。                                                            178. it is generally believed that the chief reason for the increase in population in developed countries is not so much the rise in birth rates as the decline in death rates as a result of the improvement in medical care.普遍认为，在发达国家人口增长的主要原因与其说是出生率的上升，还不如说是由于医疗保健的改善使死亡率下降了。                                               179. there is no doubt that the increase in demand caused the rise in prices.毫无疑问，需求的增长导致了价格的上涨。                                          180. additional social stresses may also occur because of the population explosion or problems arising from mass migration movements-themselves made relatively easy nowadays by modern means of transport.由于人口的猛增或大量人口流动（现代交通工具使这种流动相对容易）引发的种种问题也会对社会造成新的压力。                                                               181. with the opening and reform policy being carried out, thousands upon thousands of foreign visitors are crowding into our country. they are eager to see this old mysterious land with a splendid culture of more than 5,000years.随着改革开放政策的贯彻执行，数以万计的外国游人涌入中国。他们渴望参观这个有着5000多年灿烂文化的神秘古国。                                   182. tourism brings china a lot of benefits. first, it enables the chinese people to know more about the outside world and promotes friendship and understanding. second, it is financially beneficial to china, which needs more foreign currencies for its modernization program.旅游业给中国带来许多好处。首先，它使中国人了解外界，并有助于促进友谊和理解。其次，在经济上也有利于我国，因为中国现代化建设需要大量的外汇。                           183 tourism, however, gives rise to a number of problems. for instance, it becomes a burden to inefficient transportation system.旅游业也引起许多问题。例如，它增加了我国本来效率不高的运输系统的负担。                                184. besides, the living standard of the average chinese is still not high enough to be able to afford the many different sorts of expensed during long distance travels.此外，中国人民的生活水平还没有高到足以使普通中国人有钱支付长途旅行的各种开支。
写作：四六级作文中常用经典套句
作文中常用句套：下文中出现的 A,B, "..."(某事物), "sb"( somebody), 要在写作中要根据上下文进行适当替换. 
开头： 
When it comes to ..., some think ... 
There is a public debate today that ... 
A is a commen way of ..., but is it a wise one? 
Recentaly the problem has been brought into focus. 
提出观点： 
Now there is a growing awareness that... 
It is time we explore the truth of ... 
Nowhere in history has the issue been more visible. 
进一步提出观点： 
... but that is only part of the history. 
Another equally important aspect is ... 
A is but one of the many effects. Another is ... 
Besides, other reasons are... 
提出假想例子的方式： 
Suppose that... 
Just imagine what would be like if... 
It is reasonable to expect... 
It is not surprising that... 
举普通例子： 
For example(instance),... 
... such as A,B,C and so on (so forth) 
A good case in point is... 
A particular example for this is... 
引用： 
One of the greatest early writers said ... 
"Knowledge is power", such is the remard of ... 
"......". That is how sb comment ( criticize/ praise...). 
"......". How often we hear such words like there. 
讲故事 
（先说故事主体），this story is not rare. 
..., such delimma we often meet in daily life. 
..., the story still has a realistic significance.
提出原因： 
There are many reasons for ... 
Why .... , for one thing,... 
The answer to this problem involves many factors. 
Any discussion about this problem would inevitably involves ... 
The first reason can be obiviously seen. 
Most people would agree that... 
Some people may neglect that in fact ... 
Others suggest that... 
Part of the explanation is ... 
进行对比： 
The advantages for A for outweigh the disadvantages of... 
Although A enjoys a distinct advantage ... 
Indeed , A carries much weight than B when sth is concerned. 
A maybe ... , but it suffers from the disadvantage that... 
承上启下： 
To understand the truth of ..., it is also important to see... 
A study of ... will make this point clear
让步： 
Certainly, B has its own advantages, such as... 
I do not deny that A has its own merits. 
结尾： 
>From what has been discussed above, we may safely draw 
the conclusion that ... 
In summary, it is wiser ... 
In short... 
在作文中引用合适的名言警句，会给你的文章增色许多。这里收集了我本人喜爱的一些名言，可能会对你有用。我们使用引用的位置可以在开头结尾或正文段落中， 
常见的使用形式如下： 
One of the greatest early writers said ... 
"Knowledge is power", such is the remard of ... 
"......". That is how sb comment ( criticize/ praise...). 
"......". How often we hear such words like there. 
Useful quotations
逆境 
by Robert Collier 
In every adversity there lies the seed of an equivalent advantage. In every defeat there is a lesson showing you how to win the victory next time. 
努力与成功 
by Ann Landers 
Opportunities are usually disguised as hard work, so most people don't recognize them. 
坚持 
by Ralph Waldo Emerson 
No one can cheat you out of ultimate success but yourselves. 
Confucius 孔子 
Our greatest glory is not in never falling... 
but in rising every time we fall. 
坚持 
Mother Teresa 
To keep a lamp burning we have to keep putting oil in it. 
Henry Ford 
Nothing is particularly hard if you divide it inuo small jobs. 
Winston Churchill 
Never, never, never, never give up. 
Albert Einstein 
In uhe middle of difficulty lies opportunity. 
努力与成功 
by Crassus 
Those who aim at great deeds must suffer greatly. 
Thomas Edison 
There is no substitute for hard work. 
Leo Tolstoi 
The strongest of all warriors are these two- Time and Patience. 
Thomas Jefferson 
I'm a great believer in luck, 
and I find the harder I work... 
the more I have of it.
Robert Collier 
Success is the sum of small efforts, repeated day in and day out. 
Ray A. Croc 
Luck is a dividend of sweat. The more you sweat, the luckier you get. 
实际经验与间接经验 
You'll learn more about a road by traveling it... 
than by consulting all the maps in the world. 
动机与结果 
Vince Lombardi 
Winning isn't everything... 
but wanting to win is. 
John F. Kennedy 
We choose to go!to the moon and other things , oot because they are easy, but because they are hard. 
Thucydides 
The strong do what they will. 
The weak do what they must. 
为人态度： 
John Wooden 
Talent is God given--Be Humble. 
Fame is man given-- Be Thankful. 
Conceit is self given --Be Careful. 
行动： 
Theodore Roosevelt 
Do what you can , with what you have , with where you are. 
Publilius Syrus Maxim 
No one knows what he can do till he tries. 
Terence 
There is nothing so easy but that it becomes difficult when you do it reluctantly. 
Thomas Fuller 
A wise man turns chance into good fortune. 
William Hazlitt 
Prosperity is a great teacher; 
adversity is a greater. 
William Penn 
No pains, no palm; 
no thorns, no throne; 
no gall , no glory; 
no cross, no crown. 
Will Rogers 
Even if you're on the right track, you'll get run over... if you just sit there. 
Opportunity rarely knocks on your door. 
Knock rather on opportunity's door if you ardently wish to enter.
成功与失败 
Vince Lombardi 
It's not whether you get knocked down. 
...It's whether you get up again. 
Winston Churchill 
An optimist sees an opportunity in every calamity; 
a pessimist sees a calamity in every opportunity. 
热情（年轻/年老） 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
信心 
James Allen
The will to do springs from the knowledge that we can do. 
Samuel Johnson 
Few things are impossible to diligence and skill. 
Aughey 
Lost time is never found again. 
Voltaire 
No problem can stand the assault of sustained thinking. 
Napoleon
Victory belongs to the most persevering. 
细心 
Euipides 
Leave no stone unturned. 
计划与工作 
Norman Vincent Peale 
Plan your work for today and every day; 
then work your plan. 
Henry Ford 
Failure is only the opportunity to more intelligently begin again. 
Thomas Edison 
I start where the last man left off. 
理想与现实 
What the mind of man can conceive and believe, 
the mind of a man can achieve. 
勤奋 
Benjamin Franklin 
Plough deep while sluggards sleep. 
目标 
Henry David Thoreau 
In the lone run men hit only what they aim at. 
幸运 
Emily Dickinson 
Luck is not chance... 
It's toil... 
Fortune's expensive smile is earned. 
勤奋 
Thomas Edison 
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration. 
Useful Quotations 
想象力 
Albert Einstein 
Imagination is more important than knowledge. 
挑战： 
Walter Begehot 
The great pleasure in life is doing what people say you cannot do. 
机会与准备 
Abraham Lincoln 
I will prepare and some day my chance will come. 
信心与事实 
Henry Ford 
Whether you think you can or think you can't -- you are right. 
English Proverb 
Where there's a will there's a way. 
There is no failure excepting no longer trying. 
Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity